Summary of: html07_StudyGuide.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html07 Flexbox and Responsive Design
Type of document: study guide

In one sentence:
This study guide defines the flexbox, media query, responsive design, and grid vocabulary, gives cheat sheets for each, states exactly how much CSS Grid is on the exams, and lists the related Ohio competencies.

Main ideas:
1. Vocabulary: 14 terms plus a scope note, all in Key terms below.
2. Axes explained in words. In a flex container the main axis is the direction items are laid out. With flex-direction row it runs horizontally, so justify-content moves items left and right and align-items moves them up and down. With flex-direction column the main axis runs vertically, so the two swap: justify-content moves items up and down and align-items moves them left and right.
3. Flex container cheat sheet. display flex turns flexbox on. flex-direction: row, column, row-reverse, column-reverse. justify-content: flex-start, center, space-between, space-around, space-evenly. space-around gives each item equal space on both of its sides (so the outer gaps are half the inner gaps); space-evenly makes every gap, including the outer ones, the same size. align-items: flex-start, center, stretch, baseline (baseline lines up the bottoms of the text in each item). flex-wrap: nowrap, wrap, wrap-reverse. gap: space between items.
4. Flex item cheat sheet. flex: 1 is shorthand for grow, shrink, and basis; giving every item flex 1 makes them share the space equally. flex-grow sets how much an item grows into extra space. flex-shrink sets how much it shrinks when space is short. flex-basis sets its starting size before growing or shrinking (auto uses its normal size). align-self overrides the container's align-items for that one item.
5. Mobile-first media query structure. Default (mobile) styles: body font-size 14px, container width 100 percent. At min-width 768px: font-size 16px and container width 90 percent. At min-width 1024px: font-size 18px and container width 1000px.
6. Common media query conditions: min-width 768px means the screen is at least 768 pixels wide; max-width 767px means less than 768; combining min-width 768px and max-width 1023px targets only the range between them; orientation landscape (wider than tall) and orientation portrait (taller than wide).
Code: @media (min-width: 768px) and (max-width: 1023px) { }
The word and joins two conditions so the rules apply only between 768 and 1023 pixels.
7. CSS Grid at recognition level. For either exam you only need to know that grid is the two-dimensional layout system, handling rows and columns at once, whereas flexbox handles one direction at a time. The example: display grid, grid-template-columns 1fr 2fr 1fr (three columns, middle twice as wide as each side), and gap 20px, the same gap idea as flexbox. repeat(), minmax(), auto-fit, and spanning are in the Extension Task and are not tested.
8. Ohio competencies. 6.5.8 Format Website Layout: build layouts with flexbox and grid, arrange elements in flexible responsive containers, design multi-column and multi-row structures. 6.5.13 Responsive Design: use media queries for different screen sizes, use a mobile-first approach, test on multiple devices and breakpoints. 6.2.5 Resize Images with CSS: use max-width 100 percent, keep aspect ratio with height auto, make sure images scale on mobile.
9. When to use flexbox: navigation bars, card layouts, component alignment, simple one-dimensional layouts, equal spacing. When to use grid: whole-page layouts (header, sidebar, main, footer), complex two-dimensional layouts, precise row and column control, gallery grids with fixed dimensions.
10. Responsive design process: (1) write mobile CSS first as the default; (2) define breakpoints at 768px and 1024px; (3) add media queries for larger screens; (4) test on multiple devices; (5) make sure images and text scale properly.
11. Mobile-first advantages: optimized for all users, especially mobile; progressive enhancement; cleaner, more maintainable CSS; better performance on slow connections.

Key terms:
flexbox (Flexible Box Layout) — one-dimensional system for arranging items in rows or columns with flexible sizing and alignment
display: flex — turns an element into a flex container
justify-content — aligns items along the main axis (horizontal in a row, vertical in a column)
align-items — aligns items along the cross axis, perpendicular to the main axis
flex-direction — sets the main axis: row, column, row-reverse, column-reverse
flex-wrap — whether items move to a new line when they do not fit: nowrap, wrap, wrap-reverse
gap — space between flex or grid items
media query — CSS rule that applies only when conditions like screen width or device type are met
breakpoint — a screen width where the layout changes; common ones are 768px (tablet) and 1024px (desktop)
mobile-first approach — write CSS for phones first, then add media queries for bigger screens
responsive design — design that adapts layout and content to any screen size
viewport meta tag — <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">, which controls how the page displays on different devices
max-width: 100% — lets images shrink to fit their container without stretching beyond their original size
CSS Grid — two-dimensional layout system for rows and columns
flex-grow, flex-shrink, flex-basis — how an item grows, shrinks, and its starting size
align-self — overrides align-items for one item
orientation — media condition for landscape or portrait

Watch out for:
- justify-content and align-items swap directions when flex-direction is column.
- On exams, grid is recognition only; do not over-study repeat, minmax, and auto-fit.
- max-width 767px and min-width 768px do not overlap, which is why the ranges stop one pixel short.

Connects to:
Summarizes html07 Slides and supports html07 Walkthrough and the three html07 tasks; the grid toolkit is in html07 ExtensionTask.
