Summary of: html07_ExtensionTask.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html07 Flexbox and Responsive Design
Type of document: extension task

In one sentence:
This optional extra-credit task has you build a photo gallery of at least nine images laid out with CSS Grid only, including columns that reflow without any media query and one featured image spanning two columns and two rows.

Main ideas:
1. It is for fast finishers, extra credit with no points and no rubric; finish the regular html07 tasks first.
2. Why it is an extension: the class covers CSS Grid only at recognition level (it exists and handles rows and columns). The full toolkit is not on either exam, but it is how real galleries, dashboards, and card layouts are built.
3. Requirement 1: a grid container with display grid and gap.
4. Requirement 2: define columns with repeat(), starting with repeat(3, 1fr), which means three equal columns.
5. Requirement 3: make it responsive with zero media queries.
Code: grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(200px, 1fr));
minmax(200px, 1fr) means each column is at least 200 pixels wide but can stretch to share leftover space equally. auto-fit tells the browser to fit as many of those columns across the row as the width allows. So as the window narrows, a column that no longer fits at 200 pixels drops out and its images move to the next row automatically. Narrow the window to watch the columns reflow, and write a comment explaining why it works.
6. Requirement 4: make one "featured" image cover a square of four cells, two columns wide and two rows tall, using grid-column: span 2 and grid-row: span 2.

Key terms:
display: grid — turns on two-dimensional layout
gap — space between grid cells
repeat() — repeats a column definition a number of times
fr — one fraction of the available space
minmax(min, max) — a size that can range between a minimum and a maximum
auto-fit — fits as many columns as possible in the available width
grid-column: span 2 — makes an item stretch across two columns
grid-row: span 2 — makes an item stretch down two rows

What you are asked to do:
- Build html07_ExtensionGallery_lastname.html: a responsive gallery of at least 9 images using CSS Grid, not flexbox.
- Commit that file plus its stylesheet and images, and a comment explaining in your own words what auto-fit and minmax() are doing.
- Done when: grid layout with 9 or more images and gaps between cells; columns reflow responsively with zero media queries; one featured image spans 2 by 2; the explanation comment is in your own words (the source says this part proves you learned it); pushed to GitHub.

Watch out for:
- The explanation must be your own words, not copied.
- Every image still needs alt text.

Connects to:
Goes beyond html07 Slides and StudyGuide, which say repeat, minmax, auto-fit, and spanning are not tested; html07 DIYTask Option B can use the same auto-fit pattern. The source does not say which images to use, but the lesson's images folder has enough placeholder photos to meet the 9-image requirement.
