Summary of: html07_Slides.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html07 Flexbox and Responsive Design
Type of document: slideshow

In one sentence:
This slideshow introduces flexbox (sub-lesson 07a), mobile-first media queries and responsive images (07b), and the basics of CSS Grid (07c), ending with a responsive gallery example.

Main ideas:
Sub-lesson 07a, Flexbox:
1. Flexbox (the Flexible Box Layout) makes aligning elements easy. It is one-dimensional: it lays items out along a single line, either a row running left to right or a column running top to bottom. It suits navigation bars, cards, and small component layouts.
2. You put display: flex on the container (the parent), not on the children. The children automatically become flex items lined up inside it.
Code: .container { display: flex; justify-content: center; align-items: center; }
This makes the container a flex container and centers its children both along the row and up and down.
3. Two directions matter. The main axis is the direction items are lined up in (left to right for a row). The cross axis runs perpendicular to it (top to bottom for a row).
4. Container properties. flex-direction sets the main axis: row (the default), column, row-reverse, or column-reverse. justify-content spreads items along the main axis: flex-start packs them at the start, center groups them in the middle, space-between pushes the first item to the start, the last to the end, and shares the leftover space between them. align-items lines items up on the cross axis: flex-start, center, or stretch (items stretch to fill the height). flex-wrap decides whether items that do not fit move onto a new line: nowrap (the default), wrap, or wrap-reverse. gap sets the space between items.
5. Item properties. flex is shorthand for grow, shrink, and basis (how an item grows, shrinks, and its starting size). align-self lets one item override the container's align-items.
6. Navigation bar example: a nav with class navbar containing Home, About, and Contact links. The navbar is display flex with justify-content space-between, gap 20px, padding 15px, and a dark background (#333). Links are white with no underline. Result: the three links spread across one horizontal bar, first at the left edge, last at the right edge, one in the middle.

Sub-lesson 07b, Media queries and responsive design:
7. Mobile-first means you write your normal CSS for small phone screens, then add media queries that change things as the screen gets wider. The example: body font-size 14px by default, 16px at min-width 768px (tablets and up), 18px at min-width 1024px (desktops and up).
Code: @media (min-width: 768px) { body { font-size: 16px; } }
The rules inside apply only when the browser window is at least 768 pixels wide.
8. Advantages listed: a mobile-optimized experience for everyone, progressive enhancement (adding features for larger screens), and lighter, faster pages on mobile devices.
9. Responsive images: give images max-width 100 percent (never wider than their container), height auto (keeps the proportions), and display block.
10. Every HTML file must include the viewport meta tag in the head.
Code: <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
This tells phones to use their real screen width and start at normal zoom instead of pretending to be a zoomed-out desktop.
11. Common breakpoints: mobile is under 768px and uses the default styles; tablet is 768px and up with @media (min-width: 768px); desktop is 1024px and up with @media (min-width: 1024px). Example: a container with display flex and flex-direction column (stacked) on mobile, changed to flex-direction row (side by side) at 768px.

Sub-lesson 07c, CSS Grid basics:
12. CSS Grid is two-dimensional: it controls rows and columns at the same time, like a table of cells. You turn it on with display: grid. The slides say it is best for page layouts rather than components, and is more powerful but more complex than flexbox.
13. Example grid: grid-template-columns 1fr 2fr 1fr makes three columns where the middle one gets twice the share of space of each side one; grid-template-rows 100px auto 50px makes a 100 pixel top row, a middle row sized to its content, and a 50 pixel bottom row; gap 20px spaces the cells.
14. What you need to know for exams: display grid gives rows and columns at once, gap spaces the cells, and columns are defined with values like 1fr 2fr 1fr. What exists but is not tested (it is in the Extension Task): repeat(), minmax(), auto-fit, and spanning cells.
15. Flexbox versus Grid comparison in words. Flexbox is one-dimensional (a row or a column), best for components and navigation, aligns on a main and cross axis, and is simpler. Grid is two-dimensional (rows and columns), best for page layouts, aligns by rows and columns, and has more options. Use both: grid for the page layout and flexbox inside grid cells.
16. Final example, a responsive gallery: display grid with grid-template-columns repeat(3, 1fr) for three equal columns, gap 15px, padding 20px; a media query for widths 768 to 1023 pixels switches to two columns; a media query for widths up to 767 pixels switches to one column.

Key terms:
flexbox — one-dimensional layout for lining items up in a row or a column
flex container — the parent with display: flex
flex item — each direct child of a flex container
main axis — the direction items are lined up in
cross axis — the direction perpendicular to the main axis
flex-direction, justify-content, align-items, flex-wrap, gap — container properties described above
flex — item shorthand for grow, shrink, basis
align-self — item property that overrides align-items for one item
media query — a block of CSS that only applies when a condition such as screen width is met
min-width — media condition meaning "at least this wide"
max-width (in a media query) — "at most this wide"
breakpoint — a screen width where the layout changes, here 768px and 1024px
mobile-first — writing phone styles first and adding larger-screen styles with min-width queries
viewport meta tag — head tag that makes pages size correctly on phones
CSS Grid — two-dimensional layout of rows and columns
fr — fraction unit; one share of the leftover space in a grid
grid-template-columns, grid-template-rows — define the column and row sizes
repeat() — shorthand for repeating a column size, such as repeat(3, 1fr)

Watch out for:
- display: flex goes on the parent, not on each child.
- Always include the viewport meta tag.
Correction: the final gallery example is desktop-first, not mobile-first, because it starts at three columns and uses max-width queries to shrink the layout. Both approaches work, but the course requires mobile-first: one column as the default, then min-width queries at 768px and 1024px.

Connects to:
The sub-lessons match html07a Task (flexbox), html07b Task (responsive), and html07c Task (grid). The archived AI track has a parallel lesson, ai07 Flexbox and Responsive.
