Summary of: sprint05_Slides.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: sprint05 Exam Review
Type of document: slideshow

In one sentence:
The final 2-hour review slideshow that quickly revisits every sprint topic (Bootstrap, forms, SEO, accessibility, protocols, testing and deployment, troubleshooting, business and ethics) and gives exam-day tips.

Main ideas:
1. Bootstrap grid: 12 equal columns in a row; structure is container, then row, then col (or a sized col class for responsive layouts). Breakpoints: xs under 576 pixels, sm 576 and up, md 768 and up, lg 992 and up, xl 1200 and up, xxl 1400 and up. The example is a container with a row of two col-md-6 columns.
2. Bootstrap components: navbar (navigation with a responsive collapse), cards (containers for grouped content), buttons (btn classes with variants such as primary, success, danger), alerts (contextual classes info, warning, danger, success).
3. Bootstrap utilities: spacing m- for margin and p- for padding with sizes 0 to 5; text colors such as text-primary and text-danger and backgrounds such as bg-light and bg-dark; display classes d-none, d-block, d-flex and responsive ones such as d-md-none (hidden from medium up); text classes text-center, text-end, fw-bold (bold), fs-3 (font size).
4. Forms: a form element with action (the URL that receives the data), method (GET or POST, and the default is GET), and name (identifies the form). GET puts data in the URL, visible, limited to about 2000 characters, bookmarkable, less secure. POST puts data in the body, hidden, no practical limit, not bookmarkable, more secure.
5. Radio buttons allow only one choice and share the same name; checkboxes allow several and may share a name or not. Wrap related fields in a fieldset with a legend. Common input types: text, email, password, number, tel, url, date; other controls are select (dropdown), textarea, and submit, reset and button. Always pair a label whose for matches the input's id.
Code: <label for="name">Name:</label> <input type="text" id="name" name="name" required>
The label's for value matches the input's id, and required makes the field mandatory.
6. SEO essentials: a unique title of 50 to 60 characters with the main keyword; a meta description of 150 to 160 characters; one h1 per page with h2 and h3 for structure; descriptive alt text on all images; keywords placed naturally, not stuffed. On-page checklist: h1, keywords, meta tags, internal links.
7. Accessibility: the ADA is law in the USA; WCAG is the guideline set, with AA as the industry norm. The four WCAG principles spell POUR: Perceivable (users can see or hear the content), Operable (keyboard navigation, no keyboard traps), Understandable (clear language, logical structure), Robust (works with assistive technology such as screen readers and ARIA). Key techniques: contrast 4.5 to 1 for text and 3 to 1 for graphics, alt text, keyboard-accessible buttons (Tab, Enter, Space), ARIA attributes aria-label, aria-describedby and role, and skip-to-content links.
8. Protocols: HTTP is unsecured web transfer for legacy use only; HTTPS adds SSL encryption and is for all websites now; FTP is unsecured file transfer (use SFTP instead); TCP/IP is the base layer of the whole internet; DNS turns domain names into IP addresses and is not encrypted. SSL/TLS is the encryption that enables HTTPS, and a certificate proves the site's identity and is required for HTTPS. Every site must use HTTPS today for security and SEO.
9. Testing and deployment: W3C validators for HTML (validator.w3.org) and CSS (jigsaw.w3.org); cross-browser testing in Chrome, Firefox, Safari and Edge; responsive testing with the DevTools device toolbar at several sizes; accessibility testing with WAVE, Lighthouse and manual checks. Quick Git workflow: git add . to stage, git commit -m with a message to commit locally, git push origin main to push to GitHub. GitHub Pages: push the code, go to Settings then Pages and select a branch, and the site is published at username.github.io/repo-name.
10. Troubleshooting methods: Top-Down starts at the highest level and works down, checking HTML structure first, then CSS, then JavaScript. Bottom-Up starts from a specific error and traces up: console error, then the function, then its caller. Follow the Path traces data flow from form input to handler to database to output. Spot the Differences compares working and broken versions using the browser inspector, CSS differences, and git diff. Tools: browser DevTools (inspect, console, network), W3C validators, and Git history (git log, git diff).
11. Business and ethics: copyright is automatic and protects original works; trademarks protect brand names and logos (the registered and TM symbols); fair use allows limited use for education, comment and parody; always check licensing (such as Creative Commons) before using images or fonts. ADA compliance is a legal requirement, website accessibility is part of ADA compliance, and non-compliance is a business risk. Project management basics: scope (included and excluded), stakeholders (who cares about the project), timeline (when things happen), design brief (requirements document). Employability: a portfolio of your best work, a clear targeted resume, accepting feedback constructively, and professional communication.
12. Exam format and tips: multiple choice covering all topics, a mix of conceptual and practical questions, weighted toward recent sprints and common skills. Review this deck several times, complete the practice exam, focus on weak areas, and use the Master Study Guide as reference. During the exam, read carefully, skip and return when stuck, do not overthink (first instinct is often right), and check answers if time remains.

Key terms:
POUR — Perceivable, Operable, Understandable, Robust; the four WCAG principles.
d-none and d-md-none — Bootstrap classes that hide an element, always or from medium screens up.
fw-bold and fs-3 — Bootstrap classes for bold weight and font size.
aria-describedby — attribute that links a field to extra help text.
role — attribute that tells assistive technology what an element is.
skip link — a link at the top that jumps straight to the main content.
SSL/TLS — the encryption behind HTTPS; TLS is the modern version.
WAVE and Lighthouse — accessibility testing tools.
copyright, trademark, fair use, Creative Commons — the intellectual property terms above.

Watch out for:
- The default form method is GET, so a login form must set method POST explicitly.
- Contrast numbers: 4.5 to 1 for normal text and 3 to 1 for graphics at AA.
- Commits are local; nothing reaches GitHub until you push.
- Correction: Top-Down always means starting from the big picture and narrowing down. These slides illustrate it as checking HTML, then CSS, then JavaScript, while the sprint04 slides start by checking whether the site loads at all; they are different examples of the same broad-to-narrow idea.

Connects to:
Summarizes sprints 01 through 04. The sprint05 Master Study Guide and Practice Exam are the companion documents.
