Summary of: html14_ExampleSolution_styles.css
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: Capstone Project Legacy
Type of document: example solution code

In one sentence:
This is the one shared stylesheet for the four-page sample coffee shop site (about 1,100 lines), demonstrating CSS variables, Google Fonts, Flexbox and Grid layouts, form and table styling, responsive media queries, and print styles.

Main ideas:
1. Fonts. The file begins with an @import rule that loads two Google Fonts: Merriweather (a serif font, used for body text) and Montserrat (a sans-serif font, used for headings, labels, buttons, and navigation).
2. Variables. A :root rule defines CSS custom properties so values are set once and reused with var(). Colors: primary brown (hex 8B4513), secondary gold (hex D4AF37), accent cream (hex E8DCC8), dark brown text (hex 2C1810), white text, an almost-white page background (hex FEFDFB), gray secondary text (hex 666666), success green, error red, and a sienna hover color (hex A0522D). Also font variables for headings and body, three spacing sizes (0.5, 1, and 2 rem), an 8 pixel border radius, and a 0.3 second transition.
Code: color: var(--primary-color);
This line uses the variable named primary-color instead of typing the hex code again.
3. Global reset. The universal selector removes default margins and padding and sets box-sizing to border-box, so padding and borders are included in an element's width. The html element gets scroll-behavior smooth. The body sets the font, text color, background, a 1.6 line height, and a 16 pixel base size.
4. Typography. All headings use the heading font, bold, in brown. Sizes: h1 2.5rem, h2 2rem, h3 1.5rem, h4 1.25rem. Links are brown with no underline and turn gold and underlined on hover.
5. Header and navigation (Flexbox). The header is brown and sticky: position sticky with top 0 keeps it at the top while scrolling, and z-index 100 keeps it above other content. The header container is a flex row with space-between, placing the site name on one side and the navigation on the other, capped at 1200 pixels wide and centered. The nav list is also a flex row with a gap. The current page link (class active) and hovered links turn gold.
6. Hamburger button. Hidden on large screens with display none. Its three spans are drawn as 25 by 3 pixel bars. When the button has the active class, the first and third bars rotate 45 degrees in opposite directions and the middle bar fades out, turning the icon into an X.
7. Main content is centered with a 1200 pixel maximum width. The page-header and cta-section blocks have a diagonal brown gradient background with white, centered text.
8. Hero section. It uses position relative and Flexbox centering. The image is positioned absolutely to fill the whole area with object-fit cover (fills without stretching) at 70 percent opacity. The text box sits on top (higher z-index) on a mostly opaque dark brown background, which keeps the white text readable over the photo.
9. Buttons. The call-to-action button is gold with dark text; on hover it turns a deeper gold and moves up 2 pixels. The form submit button is brown with white text and turns sienna on hover.
10. Grid layouts. Most card groups use CSS Grid with repeat, auto-fit, and minmax, for example a minimum of 280 pixels per column. This makes as many columns as fit and drops to fewer on narrow screens automatically, even without media queries. Grids include features, products, testimonials, team, values (200 pixel minimum), menu items (300 pixel minimum), contact info, connect cards, and the footer (200 pixel minimum). The about-content block is a fixed two-column grid (text beside image).
Code: grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(280px, 1fr));
This line creates as many equal columns as fit, each at least 280 pixels wide.
11. Cards. Feature cards, products, team members, menu items, and contact cards share a white background, padding, rounded corners, and a soft shadow. Feature cards lift slightly on hover. Team photos are made circular with a 50 percent border radius. Testimonials and timeline items have a thick brown left border. Menu items and contact cards have a gold top border.
12. Table. Full width, border-collapse collapse (single shared borders), white background, shadow, rounded corners. The header row is brown with white text. Cells have 12 pixels of padding and a light bottom border. Even rows get a light gray background (alternating row colors, using the nth-child(even) selector), and rows highlight in cream on hover.
13. Form. Each form-group is a vertical flex column (label above field). Labels use the heading font. The required asterisk is red. Text, email, and tel inputs, selects, and textareas share padding, a gray border, and rounded corners. On focus, the default outline is removed and replaced by a brown border and a soft brown glow. The textarea can only be resized vertically. The checkbox group is a horizontal row, and the checkbox uses accent-color to match the brand.
14. Validation states. The form message box is hidden by default and shown in green (class success) or red (class error). Error message spans are hidden until JavaScript adds the class show. Fields with the class invalid get a red border and light pink background.
15. Footer. Dark brown background with white text, gold section headings, cream links, and a thin divider above the copyright line.
16. Tablet media query, max-width 768 pixels: smaller headings; the hamburger button appears; the nav list becomes a vertical column positioned under the header, hidden by setting max-height 0 with overflow hidden, and it slides open (max-height 500 pixels) when it has the active class; the about, features, and menu grids become single columns; the table text and padding shrink.
17. Mobile media query, max-width 480 pixels: body text drops to 14 pixels; headings shrink more; the hero gets shorter; all remaining grids become one column; form fields use 16 pixel text (which stops phones from zooming in on focus); the comparison table becomes display block with overflow-x auto so it scrolls sideways instead of breaking the layout.
18. Print styles, in a media print block: hide the header, footer, and call-to-action sections, use a white background and 12 point text, and avoid splitting the table across pages.

Key terms:
@import — a CSS rule that loads another stylesheet, here Google Fonts.
:root and custom properties — a place to define CSS variables (names starting with two hyphens) used with var().
box-sizing border-box — makes width include padding and border.
position sticky — keeps an element in place once it scrolls to a set position.
z-index — controls which overlapping element is on top.
Flexbox (display flex) — one-direction layout for rows or columns; justify-content and align-items control spacing and alignment.
CSS Grid (display grid) — two-dimensional layout with rows and columns.
repeat, auto-fit, minmax — Grid functions that create flexible, self-wrapping columns.
object-fit cover — makes an image fill its box without distortion, cropping if needed.
transition — animates a property change smoothly, such as a color on hover.
transform — moves, rotates, or scales an element.
nth-child(even) — a selector for every second item, used for striped table rows.
:hover and :focus — states for when the pointer is over an element or it has keyboard focus.
accent-color — sets the color of checkboxes and similar controls.
Media query — CSS that applies only at certain screen widths or for print.
max-width media query — rules that apply at that width and below.

What you are asked to do:
Nothing directly; this is the model for capstone Session 3. It covers the required external stylesheet, Google Fonts, color variables, styled navigation, table, and form, hover states, and media queries.

Watch out for:
- Correction: this stylesheet is desktop-first, not mobile-first as the project documents call it. Its base styles are for wide screens and max-width queries shrink them; mobile-first, which the course requires, starts with phone styles and adds min-width queries for larger screens.
- Correction: test your own site at the spec and rubric ranges, mobile under 600 pixels and tablet 600 to 1024. This stylesheet's breakpoints are 768 and 480 pixels, which is only one way to build it.
- Keyboard focus: form fields get a visible replacement focus style, but links and buttons have no custom focus style (the browser default outline is left in place, which is fine). Never remove focus outlines without replacing them.
- Contrast concern: gold text (hex D4AF37) is used for prices, team roles, timeline years, and link hover on white backgrounds. That is roughly a 2 to 1 contrast ratio, well below the WCAG AA minimum of 4.5 to 1 for normal text, even though the project materials claim high contrast.
- Heads up: the general footer rule (dark background, padding, top margin) also hits the small footer elements inside the home page testimonials, leaving brown name text on a dark brown background. In your own CSS, target the page footer with a class or a selector like body > footer so it does not style every footer element.
- Hiding the mobile menu with max-height 0 hides it visually, but the links can still be reached with the Tab key while the menu is closed, which can confuse keyboard users.

Connects to:
Variables and selectors from html05 CSS Fundamentals, spacing and box-sizing from html06 Box Model and Spacing, and Flexbox, Grid, and media queries from html07 Flexbox and Responsive Design.
