Summary of: html08_Walkthrough.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html08 HTML Forms
Type of document: walkthrough

In one sentence:
This guided walkthrough builds a complete, styled, responsive contact form in eight steps, with six "Try This" mini-challenges along the way.

Main ideas:
Step 1, basic page. Create a file named contact-form.html with the doctype, an html element with lang="en", a head containing the UTF-8 charset meta tag, the viewport meta tag, the title "Contact Form", and a link to a stylesheet named contact-form.css. The body has an h1 reading "Contact Us" and an empty form.
Code: <form action="/submit-contact" method="POST">
This form will send its data to /submit-contact using POST.

Step 2, text inputs with labels. Inside the form, add a fieldset with the legend "Your Information". It holds four labeled fields, each label connected by for and id:
- First Name: type text, id and name firstName, placeholder John, required.
- Last Name: type text, id and name lastName, placeholder Smith, required.
- Email Address: type email, id and name email, placeholder john@example.com, required.
- Phone Number: type tel, id and name phone, placeholder (555) 123-4567, not required.
Try This 1: add a website field using type="url" with the placeholder https://example.com, filling in your own id, name and label text.

Step 3, textarea. After the first fieldset, add a second fieldset with the legend "Your Message" containing a label "Message:" and a textarea with id and name message, rows 6, cols 50, the placeholder "Please type your message here..." and the required attribute.
Try This 2: change rows and cols to discover that rows controls the height (number of lines) and cols controls the width (number of characters across).

Step 4, radio buttons. Add a fieldset with the legend "How should we contact you?" and three radio buttons, each wrapped in its own label: Email, Phone and Text Message, with values email, phone and text. All three share name="contactMethod", which groups them so only one can be picked.
Try This 3: add a fourth radio for "Contact at specified time" with the same name and a fitting value.

Step 5, checkboxes. Add a fieldset with the legend "Subscribe" and two wrapped checkboxes: "Subscribe to our newsletter" (name subscribe, value yes) and "Follow us on social media" (name follow, value yes). Unlike radios, checkboxes allow several selections.
Try This 4: add a checkbox for "Send me special offers" with a suitable name and value.

Step 6, buttons. Just before the closing form tag, add a div with class button-group holding a submit button labeled "Send Message" and a reset button labeled "Clear Form".
Try This 5: explain the difference: submit sends the form, reset empties every field.

Step 7, the CSS file contact-form.css. In words, the styles do the following:
- body: Arial font, maximum width 600 pixels, centered with margin 50px auto, padding, light gray background.
- h1: dark gray and centered.
- form: white background, 30 pixels of padding, rounded corners and a soft box-shadow.
- fieldset: light border, padding, vertical margin, rounded corners, very light gray background. legend: bold, slightly larger, with side padding.
- label: display block with margins above and below, bold, dark gray.
- Text, email, tel and url inputs plus textarea and select, chosen with attribute selectors such as input[type="email"]: full width, 10 pixels of padding, bottom margin, light border, rounded corners, 16-pixel text, and box-sizing: border-box so padding does not push the field wider than 100 percent.
- The same fields when focused (the :focus pseudo-class): the default outline is removed and replaced with a blue border and a faint blue glow using box-shadow.
- Radios and checkboxes get a right margin and a pointer cursor.
- button: padding, margins, no border, rounded corners, 16-pixel bold text, pointer cursor, and a transition so the background color fades over 0.3 seconds.
- The submit button is blue with white text and darker blue on hover; the reset button is gray with white text and darker gray on hover.
- .button-group: top margin and centered.
- A media query for screens 600 pixels wide or narrower reduces body, form and fieldset spacing and makes buttons display block at full width so they stack.
Code: @media (max-width: 600px) { ... }
Rules inside this block apply only when the screen is 600 pixels wide or narrower.

Step 8, test the form. Open contact-form.html in a browser. Type in each field, notice you can pick only one radio but several checkboxes, type a message, click Send Message (nothing is actually sent yet, but the browser checks required fields), and click Clear Form to empty everything. Press Tab repeatedly to hear or see the focus order. Leave required fields empty and click Send to see the browser's error.
Try This 6: make the window narrower so the buttons go full width, then try changing the breakpoint number in the media query.

Key terms:
fieldset and legend — a titled group of related fields.
type="tel" and type="url" — inputs for phone numbers and web addresses.
textarea rows and cols — visible height in lines and width in characters.
contactMethod — the shared radio name that makes the three options one group.
attribute selector — CSS like input[type="text"] that targets inputs of one type.
:focus — CSS state for the field currently selected by keyboard or mouse.
box-sizing: border-box — makes width include padding and border.
transition — animates a property change, here the button color.
media query — CSS applied only when a screen-size condition is true.

What you are asked to do:
Build contact-form.html and contact-form.css as described, complete the six Try This activities, then confirm the checklist:
1. Valid doctype declaration.
2. A form with action and method.
3. Several text inputs with labels connected by for and id.
4. At least one email input.
5. At least one tel input.
6. A textarea with rows and cols.
7. A radio group sharing one name.
8. A checkbox group sharing one name.
9. Submit and Reset buttons.
10. Fieldset and legend grouping.
11. External CSS linked in the head.
12. Styled form controls (padding, borders, colors).
13. Hover effects on buttons.
14. Works on mobile through responsive CSS.

Watch out for:
- Every radio in a group must share the same name or they will not act as a single choice.
- If you remove the focus outline (outline: none), you must replace it with another visible focus style, as this walkthrough does with a border color and glow; otherwise keyboard users lose track of where they are.
- The form does not actually send data anywhere yet; the action URL is just a placeholder.
- Heads up: the CSS rule input[type="radio"] + label (and the checkbox version) only styles a label that comes right after its input. In this walkthrough the inputs are inside their labels, so the rule matches nothing; you can leave it out or keep it without harm.
- Correction: checkboxes in one group should share one name (for example name="subscribe" on both, with values newsletter and social), which is what the checklist asks for. The walkthrough's example gives them different names (subscribe and follow); that still works, but follow the checklist, since sharing a name is the safe exam answer.

Connects to:
The html08c task asks you to write almost the same CSS for an event form. The archived AI track lesson ai08 HTML Forms covers the same topic, and media queries come from html07 Flexbox and Responsive Design.
