Summary of: html08b_Task.html
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html08 HTML Forms
Type of document: task starter file

In one sentence:
This starter page asks you to build a four-section customer feedback survey using radio buttons, checkboxes, a dropdown and a textarea, each section grouped in a fieldset.

Main ideas:
This is sub-lesson 08b, Form Controls. It practices grouping controls with fieldset and legend, making a single-choice radio group, a multiple-choice checkbox group, a select dropdown with options, and a sized textarea.

What the starter page already contains:
- A page titled "Customer Feedback Survey Task" with an h1 reading "Customer Feedback Survey".
- An internal style block: body with Arial font, maximum width 600 pixels, centered, padded, light gray background; a white, padded, slightly rounded form; and a dark gray centered h1.
- No form yet. Every piece is a TODO comment followed by "YOUR CODE HERE".

Key terms:
fieldset and legend — a group of related controls and its title.
radio group — radios sharing one name; only one can be chosen.
checkbox group — checkboxes sharing one name; several can be chosen.
select and option — a dropdown and its choices.
textarea — multi-line text box with rows and cols.

What you are asked to do:
Complete each TODO in order:
1. Open a form with action="/survey" and method="POST".
2. Fieldset 1 with the legend "Service Rating": add the label text "How would you rate our service?" and then five radio buttons with values 5-excellent, 4-good, 3-average, 2-poor and 1-terrible. All must have name="serviceRating", and each needs its own label text. Close the fieldset.
3. Fieldset 2 with the legend "Which products interest you?": five checkboxes with values electronics, clothing, home, sports and books, all with name="productInterest", each with descriptive label text such as "Electronics" and "Clothing". Close the fieldset.
4. Fieldset 3 with the legend "Contact Method": a label "Preferred contact method:" and a select with id and name "contact", holding four options: value email shown as Email, value phone shown as Phone, value text shown as Text Message, and value mail shown as Postal Mail. Close the fieldset.
5. Fieldset 4 with the legend "Additional Comments": a label "Your feedback:" and a textarea with id and name "feedback", rows 5, cols 60, and the placeholder "Please share any additional comments...". Close the fieldset.
6. A submit button with the text "Submit Survey".
7. Close the form.
Code: <label><input type="radio" name="serviceRating" value="5-excellent"> Excellent</label>
This is one finished radio button: wrapped in its label, part of the serviceRating group, sending the value 5-excellent.

Watch out for:
- If any radio uses a different name, it will no longer be part of the single-choice group.
- The label "Preferred contact method:" should use for="contact" to connect to the select's id.
- Correction: a label element names only one control, so the rating prompt for the whole radio group should not go in a label element. Write it as plain text (or fold it into the fieldset's legend, which is what names a group), then give each radio its own label; the TODO only says to add "label text", which plain text satisfies.
- Textarea needs a closing tag even when it starts empty.

Connects to:
The html08 slides (08b section) and walkthrough steps 3 to 5 teach these controls. The html08 DIY task later requires every one of these controls in your own survey.
