Summary of: html10_PublishWalkthrough.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html10 Site Quality and Publishing
Type of document: walkthrough

In one sentence:
This 40 to 50 minute guided walkthrough (titled Lesson 13) has you trace how a web request works, validate a small test page, test it in several browsers, and deploy a site to GitHub Pages.

Main ideas:
Part 1, web protocols (10 minutes).
1. Visiting https://www.google.com step by step: you type the URL; the browser sends a request; DNS looks up google.com and finds its IP address (142.251.32.14); the browser connects to Google's server at that address; the server sends back HTML, CSS and images; the browser renders the page by parsing HTML, applying CSS and running JavaScript; you see the search page.
2. Key takeaway, the web in layers: DNS finds the server; HTTPS or HTTP transfers the data; TCP/IP breaks data into packets for delivery; browser rendering turns code into a visible page.
Part 2, validating code (15 minutes).
3. Create test.html, a short valid page with a doctype, lang="en", charset and viewport meta tags, a title of Test Page, an internal style for body and h1, an h1, a paragraph, an image with alt text, and a link to example.com.
4. Validate the HTML: go to validator.w3.org, choose the Direct Input tab, paste the code, and click Check.
5. Validate the CSS: go to jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator, choose Direct Input, paste the CSS from inside the style tag, and click Check.
6. Takeaway: validation catches mistakes that can break the page in some browsers, so always validate before deploying.
Part 3, cross-browser testing (10 minutes).
7. Browsers handle HTML and CSS slightly differently, so something that works in Chrome may break in Firefox. Open test.html in Chrome, then Firefox, and in Safari or Edge if available.
8. Open DevTools with F12 (or Ctrl plus Shift plus I on Windows, Cmd plus Option plus I on Mac). Use the Inspector or Elements tab to explore the page structure and the Console tab to look for errors, which appear in red. DevTools also has a mobile view button for testing responsive design.
Part 4, deploying to GitHub Pages (20 minutes).
9. Prerequisites: a free GitHub account, git or GitHub Desktop installed, and a project ready to deploy.
10. Step 1: on github.com, use the plus icon, then New repository. Name it username.github.io using your own username (for example jane-smith.github.io), set it to Public (required for Pages), and create it.
11. Step 2: in GitHub Desktop, choose File, then Clone repository, pick username.github.io, and choose a folder on your computer.
12. Step 3: copy your HTML, CSS and image files into that folder. You must have an index.html file, which is the home page. A typical layout is index.html and style.css at the top level with an images folder beside them.
13. Step 4: in GitHub Desktop your new files appear in the Changes list; write a short descriptive summary and click Commit to main.
14. Step 5: click Push origin.
15. Step 6: on GitHub, open the repository's Settings, choose Pages in the left sidebar, under Source select the main branch, and click Save.
16. Step 7: wait 1 to 2 minutes for GitHub to build the site. Step 8: visit https://username.github.io.
17. Takeaway: a commit and a push deploy a real website, which is how modern developers work.
Troubleshooting.
18. Site does not appear: wait 5 minutes, check the repository name is exactly username.github.io, make sure index.html is in the root folder, and confirm Pages is enabled in Settings.
19. Git push asks for a password: use a GitHub personal access token (Settings, Developer settings, Personal access tokens), not your regular password.
20. CSS or images missing: use relative paths, such as href="style.css" and src="images/photo.jpg", never full computer paths like C:/users/...
Code: <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">
This links a style sheet sitting in the same folder as the page, so it works both on your computer and on the live site.
21. Site looks wrong on mobile: make sure the viewport meta tag is present and test with DevTools responsive mode (the device toolbar button).
Code: <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
This tells phones to use the device's real width and normal zoom instead of shrinking a desktop-sized page.

Key terms:
Direct Input — the validator tab where you paste code instead of giving a URL.
Console — the DevTools tab that lists JavaScript errors.
Inspector or Elements tab — the DevTools view of the page's HTML structure.
clone — copy a GitHub repository to your computer.
Commit to main — the GitHub Desktop button that saves a snapshot on the main branch.
Push origin — the GitHub Desktop button that uploads commits to GitHub.
index.html — the required home page file in the root of the site.
relative path — a file path measured from the current page, such as images/photo.jpg.
personal access token — a generated key used instead of a password for git on the command line.

What you are asked to do:
Record your results in each part as you go (the walkthrough's short Try This questions are left out of these notes):
- Part 2: record the HTML validator results (take a screenshot) and list any errors; record the CSS validator results.
- Part 3 checklist: page loads in Chrome; loads in Firefox; links work in all browsers; images display in all browsers; CSS applies in all browsers; no console errors.
- Part 4: write down your GitHub username and repository name, whether the clone succeeded, the files you are adding, your commit summary, and whether the push succeeded; screenshot the Pages settings showing the site enabled; confirm the live site works and write down your live URL.
Summary checklist: I understand how the web works (DNS, HTTPS, rendering); I validated my HTML and CSS; I tested in multiple browsers; I deployed to GitHub Pages; my site is live at a public URL; I understand the commit-then-push workflow.

Watch out for:
- The repository must be public and named exactly username.github.io.
- index.html must be in the root folder, not a subfolder.
- Absolute computer paths break on the live site.
- The test page's image, image.jpg, does not exist, so it will show as broken; that is not a validation error.
- Correction: in GitHub Desktop, which the class uses, you fix a password or sign-in problem by signing in again through File, Options, Accounts (as the html10e task says). The walkthrough's personal access token tip applies only to command-line git.
- Several steps ask for screenshots or describe things visually (errors listed in red, hovering over elements); the requirement underneath is simply to record the validator results and any console errors.

Connects to:
html10d Task (validation and cross-browser testing of your own project) and html10e Task (the full deployment steps).
