Summary of: html11a_Task.html
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: Enrichment, Bootstrap Basics (the retired Lesson 11 Bootstrap unit)
Type of document: task starter file

In one sentence:
This starter HTML page for sub-lesson 11a has you add Bootstrap and build a four-item responsive grid.

Main ideas:
1. The starter page is nearly empty. It has the doctype, html with lang="en", a head with meta charset UTF-8, the viewport meta tag, and the title "HTML11a: Grid System Task". The body contains only instruction comments.
2. The practice goal is the grid system: a container holding a row, holding columns whose widths change at breakpoints.
3. The width math: col-12 is 12 of 12 columns (full width), col-md-6 is 6 of 12 (half), and col-lg-3 is 3 of 12 (one quarter, 25 percent).

Key terms:
container — the wrapper div the grid lives in.
row — the horizontal line that holds the columns.
col-12, col-md-6, col-lg-3 — full width on mobile, half width from medium screens, quarter width from large screens.
mb-4 — margin at the bottom, size 4, for space between items.
bg-light — a light gray background.
p-3 — padding size 3 inside the box.

What you are asked to do:
The TODO comments inside the file say:
1. In the head, add the Bootstrap CSS CDN link.
2. In the body, build a responsive grid:
- Wrap everything in a div with class container.
- Inside, create a div with class row.
- Add 4 items that are full width (col-12) on mobile, 2 per row (col-md-6) on medium screens, and 4 per row (col-lg-3) on large screens.
- Give each item margin-bottom with mb-4.
- Inside each item, put a div with classes bg-light and p-3.
- Put the text "Item 1", "Item 2", and so on inside those inner divs.
3. The comment gives an example structure where the item's classes are blanks for you to fill in:
Code: <div class="___ ___ ___"><div class="bg-light p-3">Item 1</div></div>
The three blanks are the three column classes (plus mb-4 as the instructions ask); the inner div is the light gray padded box holding the label.
4. Before the closing body tag, add the Bootstrap JavaScript bundle CDN link.

Watch out for:
- The column classes go on the outer item div; the bg-light and p-3 go on the inner div.
- Without the CSS link in the head, none of the classes will do anything.

Connects to:
Uses the grid material from the Bootstrap Basics slides and study guide in this folder; html11b Task continues with components.
