Summary of: html06_ExtensionTask.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html06 Box Model and Spacing
Type of document: extension task

In one sentence:
This optional extra-credit task for fast finishers adds two pure-CSS touches: a header that sticks to the top while scrolling and a row of cards that lift up when hovered.

Main ideas:
1. It is extra credit with no points and no rubric, and you should finish the regular html06 tasks first. No JavaScript is allowed.
2. Part 1, sticky header. Give the header position sticky, top 0, and z-index 10.
Code: header { position: sticky; top: 0; z-index: 10; }
Sticky means the header scrolls normally until it reaches the top edge of the window (top 0), then stays pinned there. The z-index keeps it above the content scrolling underneath.
3. The header needs a solid background color; a transparent sticky header lets the content show through as it scrolls under it. The page also needs enough content to actually scroll.
4. Part 2, cards that lift. Build a row of at least three cards, each a bordered box with padding, a heading, and a sentence; this is box model practice. On hover, each card moves up slightly and gains a bigger shadow.
Code: .card:hover { transform: translateY(-6px); box-shadow: 0 8px 16px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2); }
translateY with a negative number moves the card 6 pixels up, and the larger, softer shadow makes it seem to float higher off the page.
5. Add a transition property on the card (the normal rule, not the hover rule) so the lift animates smoothly instead of jumping. The numbers given are only a starting point; experiment until it feels right.

Key terms:
position: sticky — element scrolls with the page until it reaches its offset, then stays pinned
transform: translateY() — moves an element up or down without affecting surrounding layout
box-shadow — shadow around a box; offsets, blur, and color
transition — makes a property change animate over time
:hover — selector for when the pointer is over the element

What you are asked to do:
- Commit html06_ExtensionSticky_lastname.html plus its stylesheet.
- Done when: the header stays pinned while scrolling, with a solid background and correct stacking; there are three or more cards built with padding, border, and margin (box model, "not magic"); hover lifts a card smoothly using transition, transform, and shadow; there is no JavaScript anywhere; and it is pushed to GitHub.

Watch out for:
- A transparent sticky header lets content bleed through it.
- Hover effects only respond to a mouse pointer; they do not change anything for keyboard or screen reader users, so they are decoration only.

Connects to:
Extends the fixed-header work in html06b Task and the card in html06 DIYTask; position sticky is also listed as an advanced challenge in the html06 README.
