Summary of: html06_StudyGuide.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html06 Box Model and Spacing
Type of document: study guide

In one sentence:
This study guide gives the vocabulary, width formulas, syntax cheat sheet, debugging methods, and common mistakes for the box model, display, and position.

Main ideas:
1. Vocabulary list of 22 terms, all defined in Key terms below. The core idea is that every element is a box made of four layers from the inside out: content, padding, border, margin. Padding and margin are both transparent; padding is inside the border and margin is outside it.
2. Total width formula with the default content-box sizing: total width equals width, plus left and right padding, plus left and right border, plus left and right margin. A worked example added for these notes (not in the source): width 200, padding 10 on each side, border 2 on each side, margin 5 on each side gives 200 plus 20 plus 4 plus 10, which is 234 pixels of horizontal space.
3. Total width formula with border-box sizing: total width equals width (which already includes padding and border) plus left and right margin. Margin is never included inside width in either mode.
4. Margin and padding shorthand. One value sets all sides. Two values set top-and-bottom, then left-and-right. Three values set top, then left-and-right, then bottom. Four values go clockwise: top, right, bottom, left. You can also set single sides with padding-top, padding-right, padding-bottom, padding-left (and the matching margin- properties).
Code: margin: 10px 20px 30px;
This gives 10 pixels on top, 20 pixels on left and right, and 30 pixels on the bottom.
5. Border syntax. The shorthand takes width, style, and color in that order, for example border: 2px solid black. The long-hand properties are border-width, border-style (solid, dashed, dotted, or double), and border-color. border-radius rounds the corners.
6. Display examples: a div is block (full width, new line); a span is inline (flows with text); a button is often inline-block (sits in the line but respects width and height); a class like .hidden can use display none to remove an element completely.
7. Position examples. A fixed header uses position fixed with top 0, left 0, width 100 percent, and z-index 100 so it stays pinned to the top of the window. An absolute box uses top 50px and left 100px to sit at a set spot inside its positioned parent. A relative element uses small offsets like top 5px and left 10px to nudge it from its normal spot.
8. Best practice: put box-sizing border-box on the universal selector (the star) in all projects to avoid width surprises.
9. Seeing the box model without dev tools (dev tools are disabled on school machines). The X-ray trick is to temporarily add * { outline: 1px solid red; } at the top of the stylesheet. The outline is drawn outside the border and takes no space, so nothing shifts. Change a margin or padding and notice which box moves; remove the line when done.
10. The paper method: draw four rectangles nested inside each other and label them from the inside out as content, padding, border, margin. Write your real pixel values on each ring and add up the total width using the formula.
11. Ohio (ODE) competency 6.5.8, Format Website Layout: apply margin, padding, border to control spacing; use display and position to arrange elements; use the X-ray trick to debug; create consistent professional layouts.
12. Key concepts table in words: the box model controls spacing through margin, padding, border; the content box is sized by width and height; box-sizing controls how size is calculated (border-box recommended); display controls flow; position controls placement; the X-ray trick debugs layouts.

Key terms:
box model — every element is content, padding, border, and margin layers
content — the actual material (text, images) inside the box
padding — transparent inner space between content and border; does not affect margin
border — a line around the padding with a width, style, and color
margin — transparent outer space outside the border that creates distance between elements
width — horizontal size of the content (or of the whole bordered box with border-box)
height — vertical size of the content (or of the whole bordered box with border-box)
box-sizing: content-box — the default; width and height cover only content, and padding and border are added on top
box-sizing: border-box — width and height include content, padding, and border, so total size stays fixed
display — property controlling how an element flows (block, inline, inline-block, none)
block — takes full width and starts a new line, for example div and p
inline — flows with text; width and height are ignored
inline-block — inline flow but width and height can be set
display: none — hides the element completely; it takes no space
position — property controlling placement (static, relative, absolute, fixed)
static — the default; normal document flow
relative — moved from its normal position using offsets
absolute — placed relative to the nearest positioned parent (or the document if there is none)
fixed — placed relative to the viewport and stays put while scrolling
top, right, bottom, left — offset properties used with non-static positioning
z-index — stacking order of positioned elements; higher value is on top
X-ray trick — the temporary rule * { outline: 1px solid red; } that outlines every element
border-radius — rounds the corners of a box

Watch out for:
- Forgot border-box: width math comes out wrong; add it to the star selector.
- Mixing up padding and margin: elements end up too close or too far; padding is inside, margin is outside.
- Absolute positioning breaks the layout or overlaps things: give the parent position relative.
- A fixed element you cannot reach or see: check its z-index and its parent's positioning.
- Width too wide: padding is being added on; use border-box.
- Debugging checklist: make sure border-box is on the star selector; check whether padding is widening the box; check for collapsing vertical margins (two vertical margins that meet merge into one instead of adding); make sure the absolute element's parent has relative, absolute, or fixed position; confirm the X-ray edges match what you expected; make sure z-index is high enough; and test at different screen sizes.

Connects to:
Reviews the same material as html06 Slides and html06 Walkthrough; the width formula is used directly in html06a Task.
