Summary of: html01_StudyGuide.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html01 Document Structure
Type of document: study guide

In one sentence:
This study guide gives the 20 vocabulary words for the lesson, a quick reference of the HTML skeleton and basic text tags, the VS Code workflow, and the Ohio (ODE) competencies the lesson covers.

Main ideas:
1. Vocabulary. The guide defines 20 terms, all listed under Key terms below. The most important distinctions: a tag is a single marker in angle brackets (opening, like <p>, or closing, like </p>), while an element is the whole unit of opening tag, content, and closing tag. An attribute adds extra information inside an opening tag, such as lang in the html tag.
2. The minimal HTML5 template. Doctype line first, then the html element with lang set to en, containing a head (with meta charset UTF-8 and a title) and a body. This is the same skeleton as the slides.
3. The essential meta tag. The meta charset tag declares UTF-8 encoding so international text and symbols display correctly.
Code: <meta charset="UTF-8">
This line sits inside the head and sets the character encoding.
4. Heading hierarchy. The h1 is the most important title and is used once per page. The h2 is a section heading, the h3 a subsection, and h4 through h6 are available for deeper levels.
5. Text content. Paragraphs go in p elements. A br inside a paragraph moves the following text to a new line within that same paragraph. Comments are not displayed.
Code: <p>This is another paragraph.<br>This is on a new line.</p>
This is one paragraph whose second sentence starts on a new line because of the br.
6. VS Code workflow, in order: create a project folder, open the folder in VS Code, create index.html, add the HTML structure, install the Live Server extension, right-click the file and choose "Open with Live Server", then edit and save while the browser refreshes automatically.
7. ODE competencies covered. 6.1.1 Understand HTML Principles: structure and purpose of HTML documents, the doctype and document hierarchy, semantic markup such as headings and paragraphs, and the role of meta tags. 6.5.5 Select Appropriate IDE and Tools: VS Code, its interface and file management, Live Server for local testing, and editor features like syntax highlighting and indentation. 6.5.1 Follow Web Standards and Conventions: HTML5 standards, proper structure, valid syntax, UTF-8 encoding, and code organization and commenting.

Key terms:
HTML — HyperText Markup Language; the standard language that defines the structure of web pages.
DOCTYPE — declaration telling the browser the HTML version; <!DOCTYPE html> means HTML5.
Tag — an item in angle brackets; opening (<p>) or closing (</p>).
Element — a complete component: opening tag, content, and closing tag, such as a p element containing Hello.
Attribute — extra information placed in the opening tag, such as lang="en" on the html tag.
Meta tag — a tag in the head giving metadata about the page; not shown on the page.
Charset — the character encoding; UTF-8 supports all languages and symbols.
Semantics — using tags that accurately describe what content means; important for accessibility and search engines (SEO).
Whitespace — extra spaces, tabs, and line breaks; browsers collapse runs of them into one space.
Comment — text between the comment markers (<!-- and -->) that users do not see.
Root element — the outermost element, html, containing everything else.
Head — the head section holding metadata, title, and links; not displayed.
Body — the body section holding all visible content.
Title — the title element; shows in the browser tab and bookmarks, and matters for SEO.
Heading — h1 through h6, levels of importance with h1 the highest.
Paragraph — the p element, a block of text with space before and after.
Line break — the br element; starts a new line without a new paragraph or extra space.
Indentation — spaces or tabs that show nesting in code for readability.
IDE — Integrated Development Environment; software for writing and editing code.
VS Code — Visual Studio Code, a free editor with built-in HTML features.

Watch out for:
- Know the difference between a tag and an element; quizzes like to test it.
- The head content is not displayed on the page; only the title shows, and it shows in the tab.
- Use h1 once per page.
- Browsers ignore extra whitespace, so layout must come from tags, not spacing in your code.

Connects to:
Pairs with the html01 Slides and Walkthrough in this folder. The AI track's ai01 lesson covers the same About Me page.
