Summary of: html01a_Task.html
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html01 Document Structure
Type of document: task starter file

In one sentence:
This starter file is an almost empty HTML file made only of comments; you fill in the lines under each numbered TODO to build a valid HTML5 page skeleton.

Main ideas:
The file begins with an instruction comment titled "TASK 01a: Basic Document Structure". Your objective is to build a valid HTML5 page with proper document structure by completing every TODO. You must not delete any TODO comment; instead you write your code on the blank line under each one. The comments are already indented to show where each piece nests. One extra comment in the middle, "This is where page content will go", must be left in place inside the body.

Key terms:
DOCTYPE — the <!DOCTYPE html> declaration.
lang attribute — added to the opening html tag.
head — metadata section.
meta charset — encoding tag.
title — browser tab text.
body — visible content section.

What you are asked to do:
Complete the nine TODOs in order:
1. Add the DOCTYPE declaration.
2. Open the html tag with the lang attribute.
3. Add the opening head tag.
4. Add the meta charset tag.
5. Add a title tag with the text "My Portfolio".
6. Close the head tag.
7. Add the opening body tag.
8. Close the body tag (below the "page content will go here" comment, which stays).
9. Close the html tag.
Code: <title>My Portfolio</title>
This is the exact title element TODO 5 asks for.

Watch out for:
- Keep every TODO comment; the instructions say to replace the blank line, not the comment.
- Heads up: the big instruction comment sits above where the doctype goes. Comments before the doctype are valid HTML, so leave it there and put the doctype on the line under TODO 1.
- Close tags in reverse order of opening: head before body opens, body before html closes.

Connects to:
Practices the skeleton taught in the html01 Slides and Walkthrough; html01b Task adds content inside a finished skeleton.
