Summary of: html01_Walkthrough.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html01 Document Structure
Type of document: walkthrough

In one sentence:
This guided, roughly 30-minute walkthrough has you build a simple "Welcome" page from an empty file, typing the HTML skeleton piece by piece and then adding headings, paragraphs, a line break, and comments.

Main ideas:
Part 1, setting up the project:
1. In your Documents folder on the C drive, create a folder named html01_MyFirstPage.
2. In VS Code choose File, then Open Folder, select that folder, and choose Open.
3. In the Explorer panel, create a new file named index.html.
4. Turn off inline suggestions, because they are distracting while you are learning. Go to File, Preferences, Settings, search for "Inline suggest", find the setting Editor, Inline Suggest, Enabled, and uncheck it.
Correction: the setting to uncheck is Editor, Inline Suggest, Enabled (the gray "ghost text" completions). The step's heading calls it "Quick Suggestions", which is a different VS Code setting (the pop-up word list) that you do not need to change; the source also numbers two steps 4, which you can ignore.

Part 2, the HTML skeleton, typed one piece at a time:
5. First line: the doctype declaration, which tells the browser you are writing HTML5. It is required.
Code: <!DOCTYPE html>
This is the doctype line that begins every HTML5 file.
6. Open the html element with the lang attribute set to en, meaning the page is in English. Its closing tag goes at the very end of the file.
7. Inside html, add the head section, which holds information about the page. In it put the meta charset tag set to UTF-8 (tells the browser how to handle text; UTF-8 supports all languages) and a title reading "My First Web Page" (the text in the browser tab). Each nested element is indented two spaces to make the code easier to read.
8. After the closing head tag, add the body section, where all visible content lives. Start it with a placeholder comment.
9. Close the html element at the very end, then save with Ctrl+S.

Part 3, adding content inside the body:
10. Replace the placeholder comment with an h1 reading "Welcome to My Web Page". Use only one h1 per page.
11. Below it, add an h2 reading "About This Page".
12. Add two paragraphs, for example "This is my first web page. I'm learning HTML!" and "HTML helps me structure content for the web."
13. Add a paragraph that uses a line break, so the second sentence starts on a new line without starting a new paragraph.
Code: <p>This is one line.<br>This is another line below it.</p>
This is a single paragraph with a br tag in the middle forcing a new line.
Save again.

Part 4, comments:
14. Above the h1, add a comment such as "Main heading for the page". Add more comments to label sections, such as "About section" above the h2. Comments are notes for developers; users do not see them in the browser.

Part 5, testing:
15. Option A: right-click index.html in the Explorer and choose Open with Live Server. The browser opens and refreshes automatically whenever you save. Option B: in Windows File Explorer, right-click index.html, choose Open with, and pick a browser.
16. Viewing page source (right-click, Inspect or View Page Source) lets you see your HTML for checking and debugging. The source warns this probably will not work because developer tools are turned off for student accounts.

Key terms:
Doctype — the <!DOCTYPE html> line declaring HTML5.
lang attribute — on the html tag; lang="en" marks the page as English.
head — the section with information about the page.
meta charset — sets text encoding; UTF-8 handles all languages.
title — the browser tab text.
body — the section with all visible content.
h1, h2, h3 — heading levels one, two, and three.
p — paragraph.
br — line break inside a paragraph.
Comment — a hidden developer note.
Indentation — two spaces per nesting level in this course's examples.
Live Server — VS Code extension that opens the page and auto-refreshes on save.
Inline Suggest — the VS Code setting you turn off at the start.

What you are asked to do:
Part 6, "Try This" fill-in practice, editing your index.html:
Task A. Change the title to something personal, for example your name as in "Mr. M's Fabulous Webpage", and note what the browser tab now says.
Task B. Add another h2 subheading and a paragraph about something you enjoy.
Task C. Add a br tag inside one of your paragraphs to split a sentence meaningfully across two lines.
Task D. Before your last paragraph, add a comment explaining what that paragraph is about.
Task E. Add at least one h3 subheading somewhere on the page.
When finished you should have: a valid HTML5 page with the doctype, html, head, and body tags; a title that shows in the tab; the meta charset; at least one h1, some h2s, and a few paragraphs; comments explaining sections; and a page that works in the browser. Then move on to the 01a and 01b tasks.

Watch out for:
- Every tag you open must be closed in the right place; html closes last, at the very bottom.
- Keep one h1 per page.
- Save before checking the browser.
- Developer tools such as Inspect are likely blocked on student computers.

Connects to:
Follows the html01 Slides; leads into html01a Task, html01b Task, and the DIY About Me page.
