Summary of: html01_Slides.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html01 Document Structure
Type of document: slideshow

In one sentence:
These slides introduce what HTML is, the required skeleton of every HTML page, headings and paragraphs, comments and whitespace, and the VS Code plus Live Server setup.

Main ideas:
The slides are split into sub-lesson 01a (HTML document structure) and sub-lesson 01b (content markup and the development environment).
1. What HTML is. HTML stands for HyperText Markup Language. It defines the structure and content of a web page using tags such as the paragraph tag (written <p>), the level-one heading tag (<h1>), and the body tag (<body>). HTML is not for styling or design; that is the job of CSS. Every web page is ultimately built from HTML.
2. The HTML skeleton. Every HTML file needs the same basic structure, in this order: the doctype line, then an opening html tag with a language attribute, then a head section containing a meta charset tag and a title, then a body section where content goes, then the closing html tag. The head and body sit inside the html element, and the meta and title sit inside the head.
Code: <!DOCTYPE html>
This first line tells the browser the file is HTML5.
Code: <html lang="en">
This opens the root element and says the page is in English.
3. What each skeleton part does. The doctype declares HTML5. The html element is the root that wraps everything. The head holds metadata (information about the page), the title, and later links to CSS. The title element sets the text shown in the browser tab. The meta charset tag with the value UTF-8 sets the character encoding so text in any language displays correctly. The body holds all the visible content.
Code: <meta charset="UTF-8">
This tag goes in the head and sets the character encoding to UTF-8.
4. Headings. There are six levels, h1 through h6. The h1 is the most important and should be used once per page; h2 to h6 are in descending importance. Use headings to show structure, not just to make text big.
5. Paragraphs and line breaks. The p element holds a paragraph of text. The br element makes a line break, moving to a new line without starting a new paragraph.
6. Comments. Text between the comment opener (less-than sign, exclamation point, two hyphens) and the closer (two hyphens, greater-than sign) is a comment. Visitors do not see it; it is a note for developers to remember what code does.
Code: <!-- This is a comment -->
This is a complete HTML comment; the words inside are hidden from the page.
7. Whitespace. Extra spaces, tabs, and line breaks in HTML are treated as a single space by the browser, so you are free to indent neatly for readability. Pressing Enter in your code does not create a new line on the page.
8. VS Code setup. Download the free Visual Studio Code, create a project folder, open that folder in VS Code, create a file named index.html, and rely on VS Code's built-in syntax highlighting (color-coding of code). Use the Live Server extension to preview the page in a browser.
9. A complete example page. The sample uses the skeleton with the title "About Me", an h1 reading "Welcome", and a paragraph reading "This is my first web page." Save it as index.html and open it in a browser.
10. Key takeaways. HTML provides structure, CSS provides style, JavaScript provides interactivity. Every page needs the doctype, html, head, body, title, and meta charset. Headings show importance and paragraphs hold content. Comments explain code and whitespace keeps it readable. VS Code plus Live Server is your development environment.
11. What comes next in the lesson: a walkthrough done together, the 01a task (build a basic page with proper structure), the 01b task (add headings, paragraphs, and comments), a DIY task (a complete About Me page from scratch), and a quiz and study guide.

Key terms:
HTML — HyperText Markup Language, the language that structures web page content.
Tag — a keyword in angle brackets, such as <p>, that marks up content.
DOCTYPE — the first line, <!DOCTYPE html>, declaring HTML5.
html element — the root element that wraps the whole page.
head — the section for metadata, title, and CSS links; not shown on the page.
title — the text shown in the browser tab.
meta charset — the tag that sets character encoding; UTF-8 supports all languages.
body — the section holding all visible content.
h1 to h6 — six heading levels, h1 most important.
p — paragraph element.
br — line break element; new line without a new paragraph.
Comment — a hidden developer note written between the comment markers.
Whitespace — spaces, tabs, and line breaks in code, collapsed to one space by the browser.
VS Code — the free code editor used in class.
Live Server — VS Code extension that previews pages in a browser.

Watch out for:
- Use only one h1 per page.
- Do not pick a heading level just to get bigger text; choose it by importance.
- Extra spaces and blank lines in your code will not show on the page; use p or br for that.
- HTML is for structure only. Visual styling comes later with CSS.

Connects to:
html00 Getting Started introduced VS Code and Live Server. The AI track's ai01 lesson builds the same About Me page by directing Claude.
