Summary of: ai04_Lesson.md
Course: Web Design AI track
Lesson: ai04 Images Media and Tables
Type of document: lesson

In one sentence:
This lesson has you direct Claude to add a media page to your music site with captioned images and alt text, a decorative image that screen readers skip, an audio player with one of your tracks, and an accessible table of your tracks.

Main ideas:
- You add a fourth page, media.html, to your site. It has images with alt text, an audio player with one of your tracks, and a table of your tracks.

Step 1, Set up:
- Tell Claude to make a folder called ai04_imagesMediaTables in your repository folder, copy index.html, about.html, music.html, and bio.txt from your ai03_linksAndNav folder into it, and add a fourth nav link, Media, pointing to media.html, on every page.

Step 2, Get your files:
1. Put two or three images in a folder called images inside ai04_imagesMediaTables. Suggestions: cover art you made, a photo of your gear, or a photo of you. Use lowercase file names with no spaces, such as cover1.jpg.
2. Put one of your tracks as an MP3 in a folder called media. Keep it under 10 MB, and name it something like track1.mp3.
3. Decide the alt text for each image. Alt text is what the screen reader reads in place of the picture, and you write it yourself. If you are not sure what a photo shows, ask someone, then write the alt text in your own words. Use one short sentence per image.

Step 3, Build (give Claude these directions with your file names and text):
1. Make media.html with the same header, nav, footer, and skip link as the other pages. The title is Media, and the heading level one says Media.
2. Add a section called Pictures. For each image, use a figure element with the img inside it and a figcaption under it. Give Claude each file name, its alt text, and its caption.
3. Add one decorative divider image between sections with empty alt text, so screen readers skip it. You can ask Claude to make a simple divider image for this.
4. Add a section called Listen with an audio element that has controls. The file is media/track1.mp3. Put the track name in a heading level two above it.
5. Add a section called Track List with a table. The table has a caption that says My Tracks. The header row uses th cells with scope column. The columns are Track, Year, Length, and Style. Give Claude four rows of tracks.
Code: <th scope="col">Track</th>
This is a table header cell for the Track column; the scope attribute set to col tells the screen reader that this header labels every cell below it in that column.

Step 4, Check (open media.html in Chrome):
1. Press G to move to each image. You should hear your alt text, not a file name. The decorative image should be skipped.
2. Find the audio player. Press Tab to reach the play button and press Enter; your track should play. Press Enter again to pause.
3. Press T to jump to the table. You should hear the caption and the number of rows and columns.
4. Press Control plus Alt plus Right Arrow to move across a row. The screen reader should say the column header before each cell. If it only says the cell contents, the header row is wrong; tell Claude to fix the th cells.

Step 5, Learn (ask Claude):
- Ask Claude to explain alt text versus a figcaption.
- Ask Claude to explain when an image gets empty alt text.
- Ask Claude to explain the JPG, PNG, and SVG image formats.
Several of these topics are also on the graded question sheet, so listen closely.

Step 6, Make it yours:
- Add more tracks to the table, more images, or a second audio player, then check the page again.

Step 7, Push:
- Commit with the summary Media page and push. Make sure the images and media folders show up on GitHub.

Key terms:
img — the image element; it needs alt text.
alt text — the text a screen reader reads in place of an image; you write it in your own words, one short sentence each.
empty alt text — alt text left blank on purpose for a decorative image, so screen readers skip it.
decorative image — an image that adds no information, such as a divider between sections.
figure — the element (written <figure>) that wraps an image together with its caption.
figcaption — the caption element (written <figcaption>) placed inside the figure under the image.
audio — the element (written <audio>) that plays a sound file on the page.
controls — the attribute on the audio element the lesson requires so there is a player with a play button you can Tab to.
table — the element that holds rows and columns of data; here, your track list.
caption — the table's title (written <caption>), here My Tracks; the screen reader announces it when you reach the table.
th — a table header cell; here each column header in the header row.
scope — the attribute on th that says which cells a header labels; the lesson uses scope column (written scope="col").
images folder and media folder — the subfolders holding your pictures and your MP3.
G, T, Control plus Alt plus Right Arrow — screen reader keys for moving to images (graphics), tables, and across a table row.

What you are asked to do:
Complete Steps 1 through 7 above: set up ai04_imagesMediaTables with the copied pages and the new Media nav link, add two or three images to an images folder and one MP3 under 10 MB to a media folder, write your own alt text and captions, build media.html with every part listed in Step 3, run all four checks, and commit with the summary Media page and push, making sure the images and media folders appear on GitHub.
Turn in:
1. media.html and the updated pages, with the images and media folders
2. Your answers to the questions in ai04_Questions.md, shared in Google Classroom.

Watch out for:
- If you hear a file name instead of a description when pressing G, the alt text is missing or wrong.
- If the screen reader does not announce the column header before each cell, the header row is not built correctly.
- The images and media folders must be committed too, or the page will be missing its files on GitHub.
- Keep the MP3 under 10 MB and use lowercase file names with no spaces.

Connects to:
This lesson matches html04 Images Media and Tables in the HTML CSS JavaScript track. It continues the site from ai03 Links and Navigation; ai04b in the same folder adds a release page.
