Summary of: html05_StudyGuide.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html05 CSS Fundamentals
Type of document: study guide

In one sentence:
This study guide gives 22 CSS vocabulary terms, a cheat sheet of CSS syntax, the state competencies covered, common beginner mistakes, and ten practice questions with answers.

Main ideas:
1. CSS rule syntax: a selector, then curly braces holding one or more lines of property, colon, value, semicolon.
2. The three methods compared. Inline: the style attribute in a tag; for quick one-off styles, and to be avoided. Internal: a style element in the head; for small projects or a single file. External: a separate .css file; best practice because it is reusable and maintainable.
3. Basic selectors: element selectors like p, h1, and div; class selectors like .highlight and .warning; ID selectors like the hash-sign selectors for header and main.
4. Color syntax. Named colors such as red or navy. Hex such as #FF0000 (red), #0000FF (blue), #FFFFFF (white). RGB such as rgb(255, 0, 0) for red, rgb(0, 0, 255) for blue, rgb(200, 200, 200) for gray. These work with both color (text) and background-color.
5. Font properties: font-family such as Arial, sans-serif or 'Roboto', sans-serif; font-size such as 16px or 32px; font-weight of normal, bold, or 700; line-height of 1.6 or 20px.
6. Text properties: text-align left, center, or right; text-decoration none, underline, or line-through; letter-spacing such as 2px.
7. Linking an external stylesheet: put the link element in the head.
Code: <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">
rel says the linked file is a stylesheet and href gives its file name.
8. Linking Google Fonts: put the Google Fonts link element (for example the Roboto URL from fonts.googleapis.com) in the head, then set font-family: 'Roboto', sans-serif on body.
9. Cascade and specificity. The browser reads CSS top to bottom and later rules override earlier ones. Specificity from weakest to strongest: element selector, class selector, ID selector, inline style.
10. Ohio Department of Education (ODE) competencies. 6.1.7 Integrate Styles: apply color, font, and text properties, use selectors, understand the three methods. 6.5.7 Create and Attach CSS Stylesheets: make an external .css file, link it with the link element, recognize inline versus internal versus external. 6.5.3 Use Standard Web Languages: write valid CSS syntax and apply it correctly.

Key terms:
CSS — Cascading Style Sheets, the language for styling HTML.
selector — the part of a rule that targets which elements to style.
property — the aspect you change, such as color or size.
value — the setting assigned, such as blue or 16px.
declaration — a property and value pair, such as color: blue;
declaration block — the curly-brace section holding the declarations.
inline style — CSS in a tag's style attribute.
internal stylesheet — CSS in a style element inside the head.
external stylesheet — a separate .css file linked with the link element.
element selector — targets all tags of one type, such as p.
class selector — targets elements with a class; uses a dot.
ID selector — targets one unique element; uses a hash sign.
hex color — a hash sign and 6 characters from 0 to 9 and A to F.
RGB — red, green, blue values from 0 to 255.
named color — an English color word such as navy.
font-family — the typeface.
font-size — text size, here in pixels.
font-weight — boldness: normal, bold, or 400 to 900.
line-height — vertical space between lines.
text-align — horizontal alignment.
text-decoration — underline, overline, line-through, or none.
Google Fonts — free font library linked through a link element.
letter-spacing — space between characters (in the cheat sheet, not the numbered list).

What you are asked to do:
Answer the ten practice questions (answers from the guide in parentheses):
1. What is the difference between a class selector and an ID selector? (Classes can target many elements and use a dot; IDs target one unique element and use a hash sign.)
2. Write the link tag to attach styles.css. (The link element with rel="stylesheet" and href="styles.css".)
3. What color is #FF0000? (Red.)
4. How do you add Google Fonts? (Add a link element to the Google Fonts URL in the head, then use the font name in font-family.)
5. What does font-weight: bold; do? (Makes text bold.)
6. Why is an external stylesheet better than inline styles? (Reusable, keeps HTML clean, easier to maintain.)
7. How many colors can hex codes make? (16,777,216, which is 256 times 256 times 256.)
8. What property centers text horizontally? (text-align: center;)
9. What happens if two rules apply to the same element? (The more specific or later rule wins.)
10. Write an element selector for all h2 tags. (h2 followed by empty curly braces.)

Watch out for:
The guide's six common beginner mistakes:
1. Forgetting the semicolon at the end of each declaration.
2. Wrong color syntax: hex needs the hash sign and RGB needs rgb() around the numbers.
3. Mixing up class and ID: classes use a dot and can repeat; IDs use a hash and should be unique.
4. Not linking the stylesheet: an external file does nothing without a link element in the head.
5. Misspelling properties: it is font-size, not fontSize, and text-align, not textAlign.
6. Forgetting to close curly braces: every opening brace needs a closing one.

Connects to:
The html05 Slides and Walkthrough cover the same material; the DIY Task applies it.
