Summary of: html05_Substitute.md and html05_Substitute.html
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html05 CSS Fundamentals
Type of document: substitute-day lesson (instructions) plus its task starter file

In one sentence:
On a substitute day, students watch a 20-minute intro-to-CSS video, take a quiz, and then style a provided notes page by writing 13 numbered steps into an external stylesheet; this summary covers both the instruction sheet (.md) and the page to style (.html), which share one output file.

Main ideas:
1. The day. Mr. McMaster is out. You learn CSS basics from the video "Learn CSS in 20 Minutes" by Web Dev Simplified (YouTube, about 20 minutes), take a quiz, and style a web page. This is graded. If you still have html04 work, finish and push the html04 Project first.
2. Part 1, video and quiz (about 30 minutes). Watch with the class and take the html05 Substitute Quiz in Google Classroom; you may answer while the video plays. You may re-watch on your own computer with headphones or captions. Two notes: the presenter uses a VS Code add-on called Live Server to auto-refresh, which you do not need; just open the HTML file in Chrome and refresh after saving. In the box model part he uses right-click, Inspect, which is turned off on school computers, so just watch.
3. Part 2, style the page (about 45 minutes). Open html05_Substitute.html in VS Code, create html05_Substitute.css in the same folder, and complete Steps 1 to 13, each written as a TODO comment beside the part of the page it styles. Put a comment above each CSS rule with its step number, such as a comment reading Step 3: body. Every step appears in the video.
4. Rules stated in the HTML file: do not change the HTML except for Step 1 and your name in the footer; no style element and no style attributes.
5. The page content (titled "My CSS Notes"). A header holds an h1 with id="page-title" and a line crediting the video. The main area has sections, each with an h2 and paragraphs of class note, which together are a set of study notes:
- What CSS Is: CSS is a styling language, not a programming language; HTML is the content, CSS is how it looks.
- CSS Syntax: a rule is a selector, then curly braces holding property: value pairs, each ending with a semicolon.
- Selectors: an element selector like h1 picks every h1; a class selector like .intro picks every element with class intro; an id selector like the hash-sign main selector picks the one element with id main. An element can have many classes but only one id, and an id should be used only once per page. No space between parts, as in h1.big, means both at once (an h1 that also has class big). A space, as in div p, means inside (a p inside a div). A comma, as in .big, .large, means the selectors share the same styles. The star selector (*) picks everything.
- Three Ways to Add CSS: worst is inline with a style attribute; middle is a style element in the head; best is a separate .css file linked with a link element.
- Which Style Wins: if two rules are equally strong, the one written last wins. Id beats class, class beats element, and inline beats everything. Text color is inherited from the parent element.
- Colors: named (red); hex such as #0000ff, made of pairs for red, green, and blue; rgb(255, 255, 0); RGBA adds transparency from 0 (see-through) to 1 (solid); HSL is hue, saturation, lightness.
- Box Model and Units: from the inside out, content, padding, border, margin. Padding is space inside the border; margin is space outside it. px is a fixed size; % is a percent of the parent; em scales from the parent's font size; rem scales from the root font size.
6. The Practice Area section (id practice) has a paragraph and a div that both have class highlight, three buttons, an empty div with class box followed by a sentence, a div with class half, and a paragraph with id="test" and class="test-class" whose text asks which color it is (it is the target for Step 12). The footer says "Made by", then a blank of underscores for your name, then a separator and "html05 Substitute Day".

Key terms:
external stylesheet — a separate .css file, here html05_Substitute.css, linked with a link element.
universal selector (*) — selects every element.
inheritance — child elements take on some parent styles, such as text color.
element, class, and id selectors — by tag name, by .classname, and by the hash sign plus id.
comma selector — two selectors sharing one rule, such as h2, h3.
no-space (compound) selector — p.highlight, meaning a p that has class highlight.
space (descendant) selector — footer p, meaning a p inside the footer.
rem — size relative to the root font size.
em — size relative to the parent's font size.
percent (%) width — a share of the parent's width.
rgba() — RGB plus an alpha (transparency) value from 0 to 1.
hsl() — hue, saturation percent, lightness percent.
box model — content, padding, border, and margin, from inside out.
padding — space inside the border.
margin — space outside the border.
specificity — which rule wins when several apply.

What you are asked to do:
Steps from the HTML file:
1. Link the stylesheet in the head with a link element to html05_Substitute.css. Save, open in Chrome, and refresh after every save.
2. Use the everything selector (*) to set a font-family for the whole page, such as Arial, sans-serif.
3. Style body with a background-color and a text color; notice all text changes color, which is inheritance.
4. Style h1 with an element selector: a color and a font-size in rem, such as 2.5rem.
5. Style the id page-title (hash-sign selector) with a background-color, a text color, and padding.
6. Write ONE rule styling both h2 and h3 with the same color, using a comma between the selectors.
7. Style the class .note with padding: 10px; and a see-through background using rgba(), such as rgba(0, 128, 255, 0.2).
8. Write a rule for p.highlight with no space that gives it a background-color; only the paragraph should change, not the div.
9. Buttons have two classes each. Write a .btn rule for shared padding, font-size, and border. Then write .btn-red, .btn-green, and .btn-blue rules that set only background-color, using hex for red, rgb() for green, and hsl() for blue.
10. Style .box with width 100px, height 100px, padding 20px, margin 50px, border 10px solid black, and a background-color. Look at it, then change the margin to 10px and save. In a CSS comment under the rule, write what moved and why.
11. Style .half with width: 50%; and a background-color. Resize the browser window; the box should change size with it.
12. At the BOTTOM of your CSS, in this order, add three rules: the id test set to green, .test-class set to blue, and p set to red. Guess the color first, then save and refresh, and in a CSS comment write which color won and why. The p rule turns other paragraphs red too, which is fine.
Code: #test { color: green; }
This is the first of the three Step 12 rules, an id rule; the other two are .test-class { color: blue; } and p { color: red; }.
13. Replace the blank in the footer with your name, then write a footer p rule, with a space, that makes the footer text smaller and a different color.
Part 3, finish and push: confirm the HTML has no style element and no style attributes, then commit and push both files and check on github.com that html05_Substitute.css arrived. If you finish early, return to the html04 Project or other unfinished work. If you do not finish, push what you have.
Checklist: quiz submitted in Google Classroom; html05_Substitute.css created and linked; Steps 1 to 13 done, each with a step-number comment; comments written for Step 10 (box) and Step 12 (which color won); name in the footer; no style element and no inline styles; both files pushed.
Grading criteria (no point values given): Quiz, graded automatically in Google Forms. Stylesheet linked, with no inline or style-element CSS. Selectors: the star, element, class, id, comma, no-space, and space rules all work. Colors and boxes: hex, rgb(), rgba(), and hsl() used, and the box, half-width box, and buttons styled. Explanations: the Step 10 and Step 12 comments explain what happened and why. Pushed: both files on GitHub.

Watch out for:
- None of your CSS shows up: check the link element. The href must match the file name exactly, including capitals and .css; both files must be in the same folder; save the CSS file.
- One rule does not work: look for a missing semicolon or closing brace; one missing brace can break every rule below it.
- A class rule fails: the CSS needs the dot (.note) but the HTML does not (class="note").
- An id rule fails: the CSS needs the hash sign before page-title, but the HTML does not (id="page-title").
- p.highlight changed the div too: you added a space. It has no space.
- Colors look wrong: hex needs the hash sign; rgb() and rgba() need commas between numbers; hsl() needs percent signs on the last two numbers, as in hsl(210, 100%, 50%).
- For Step 12, the notes on the page already give the rule that decides the winner: order only matters between equally strong rules, and id beats class beats element.

Connects to:
Covers the same basics as the html05 Slides and Walkthrough, and previews the box model and units that html06 develops.
