Summary of: html05_Slides.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html05 CSS Fundamentals
Type of document: slideshow

In one sentence:
This slideshow introduces CSS: the three ways to add it to a page, the three basic selectors, how a CSS rule is built, colors, fonts, text properties, and a first look at cascade and specificity, ending with the About Me restyling project.

Main ideas:
1. Three ways to add CSS (sub-lesson 05a). Inline styles put CSS in a tag's style attribute. An internal stylesheet puts CSS inside a style element in the head. An external stylesheet is a separate .css file connected with a link element. Best practice is the external stylesheet because it is cleaner and reusable.
Code: <p style="color: blue;">Styled text</p>
An inline style: only this one paragraph turns blue.
Code: <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">
An external stylesheet link placed in the head; it pulls in every rule from styles.css.
2. Three basic selectors. An element selector targets every tag of one type, such as p or h1. A class selector starts with a dot and targets every element that has that class, such as .highlight. An ID selector starts with a hash sign and targets one unique element, such as the element with id header. In HTML you write class="highlight" or id="header" without the dot or hash.
Code: .highlight { background-color: yellow; }
Every element with class highlight gets a yellow background.
3. Anatomy of a CSS rule. A rule has a selector (what to style) and a declaration block (the curly braces, saying how to style it). Inside are declarations, each a property and a value separated by a colon, such as color: blue. The property is the aspect being changed and the value is the setting. Every declaration ends with a semicolon.
Code: p { color: blue; font-size: 18px; }
All paragraphs become blue and 18 pixels tall.
4. Colors (sub-lesson 05b). Named colors are English words like red or navy. Hex colors are a hash sign followed by 6 characters using 0 to 9 and A to F, such as #FF0000 for red and #0000FF for blue. RGB colors give red, green, and blue amounts from 0 to 255, such as rgb(255, 0, 0) for red. Hex and RGB let you make custom colors; named colors are simple for beginners.
5. Font properties. font-family picks the typeface and lists a fallback, such as Arial, sans-serif. font-size sets size in pixels (px), for example 32px for h1 and 16px for paragraphs. font-weight sets boldness using normal, bold, or numbers 400 to 900 (700 is bold). Google Fonts are free professional fonts: add their link element in the head, then use the font name in font-family.
Code: body { font-family: 'Roboto', sans-serif; }
The whole page uses Roboto, falling back to any sans-serif font if Roboto fails to load.
6. Text properties. text-align sets alignment: left, center, right, or justify. line-height sets space between lines, unitless (like 1.6) or in px. text-decoration adds underline, overline, line-through, or none; a common use is removing link underlines with text-decoration: none. letter-spacing adds space between characters, such as 2px.
7. Cascade and specificity (quick intro). The cascade means the browser applies styles top to bottom, so the last rule wins. Specificity means some selectors are stronger: element is weak, class is medium, ID is strong, and an inline style is strongest. The advice is to use external stylesheets and classes for maintainable code.
8. What you will build: restyle the About Me page from html01 using CSS. Start with its HTML, create a separate styles.css, link it, and add rules for colors (text and backgrounds), fonts (family, size, weight), and text formatting (alignment, spacing), using at least 2 classes and 1 ID selector. The goal is the same HTML with a totally different look.

Key terms:
CSS — the styling language for HTML.
inline style — CSS in a tag's style attribute.
internal stylesheet — CSS in a style element in the head.
external stylesheet — CSS in a separate .css file linked with a link element.
selector — the part of a rule that chooses which elements to style.
element selector — targets all tags of one type.
class selector — targets elements with a class; written with a leading dot.
ID selector — targets one unique element; written with a leading hash sign.
declaration block — the curly braces holding the declarations.
declaration — one property and value pair ending in a semicolon.
property — the aspect you change, like color.
value — the setting you give a property, like blue.
named, hex, and RGB colors — three ways to write a color.
font-family, font-size, font-weight — typeface, size, and boldness.
Google Fonts — free font library linked from the head.
text-align, line-height, text-decoration, letter-spacing — alignment, line spacing, underline and similar lines, character spacing.
cascade — later rules override earlier ones.
specificity — how strong a selector is.

Watch out for:
- Every declaration needs a semicolon.
- The dot and hash belong in the CSS selector, not in the HTML attribute.
- Correction: in the specificity example the ID rule wins, so the text is red. Specificity from weakest to strongest is element, class, ID, inline style; the slide confusingly labels both the class rule and the ID rule "wins!", but the class rule only beats the element rule.

Connects to:
The html04 lesson already used an inline style (image max-width) and an internal style block (table borders). Lesson html06 continues with the box model and spacing.
