Summary of: html02_StudyGuide.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html02 Semantic HTML
Type of document: study guide

In one sentence:
This study guide lists 22 vocabulary terms for semantic HTML, text formatting, and lists, gives a code cheat sheet, the ODE competencies, common mistakes, and study tips (its practice questions are left out of these notes).

Main ideas:
1. Text formatting. Use strong for strong importance and em for stress or emphasis; the guide says screen readers convey both. Avoid b and i, which are visual only with no meaning.
2. Page structure elements. header holds introductory content such as a logo, site title, or navigation. nav holds navigation links and menus. main is the primary content area, and there should be only one per page. section is a general container for a themed group of content. article is self-contained content such as a blog post, news article, or product review. aside holds content only loosely related to the main content, such as links, ads, or related items. footer holds copyright, contact info, or links.
3. The cheat sheet's page layout, in order: a header containing an h1 site title; a nav containing Home and About links; a main containing an article (h2 title and paragraph) and an aside (h3 "Related Links" with an unordered list of links); and a footer with a copyright paragraph. The copyright symbol is written with the character entity ampersand, copy, semicolon.
Code: <p>&copy; 2024 My Site</p>
This paragraph displays a copyright symbol followed by 2024 My Site.
4. Lists. ol makes a numbered list, ul a bulleted list, and every item in either goes in an li. A nested list is placed inside an li of the outer list. A description list (dl) pairs terms (dt) with definitions (dd), like a glossary.
5. ODE competencies. 6.1.2 Plan with Web Design Standards: semantic structure improves planning and accessibility compliance. 6.1.3 Format Content with HTML Tags: strong, em, and semantic page elements. 6.1.4 Proofread and Validate Code: correct semantic tags help ensure valid HTML. 6.1.5 Create Lists Using HTML: ordered, unordered, nested, and description lists.
6. Study tips. Type out semantic pages yourself; listen to semantic versus non-semantic pages with a screen reader; validate at validator.w3.org; inspect real websites' HTML; memorize header, nav, main, article, aside, and footer; know which list fits which job (ordered for steps, unordered for items, description for glossaries).

Key terms:
strong — text of strong importance; screen readers emphasize it (per the guide).
em — emphasized or stressed text.
b — visual bold, no meaning; use strong instead.
i — visual italic, no meaning; use em instead.
Semantic markup — tags that describe meaning rather than appearance.
header — introductory content, logos, site titles, or navigation.
nav — container for navigation links and menus.
main — primary content area; only one per page.
section — thematic grouping of content.
article — self-contained content like a blog post or review.
aside — sidebar content tangentially related to the main content.
footer — copyright, contact info, or links.
ol — ordered list, numbered.
ul — unordered list, bulleted.
li — a list item.
dl — description list for key-value pairs or glossaries.
dt — description term (the key).
dd — description definition (the value).
Accessibility (a11y) — making content usable by everyone, including people with disabilities.
Screen reader — software that reads a page aloud and depends on semantic HTML to understand structure.
Nested lists — lists inside list items of another list, for hierarchical information.
HTML5 semantic elements — modern tags that give meaning and structure to content.

Watch out for:
The guide's common mistakes:
1. Using b and i instead of strong and em; screen readers will not understand the intent.
2. Forgetting li tags; every list item must be wrapped in li.
3. Putting main inside header or footer; main is a top-level structural element.
4. Nesting lists just for looks; nest only when the content is truly hierarchical.
5. Mixing ol and ul items without proper nesting.

Connects to:
Pairs with the html02 Slides. The AI track's ai02 lesson applies the same page regions and lists.
