Summary of: html02_Slides.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html02 Semantic HTML
Type of document: slideshow

In one sentence:
These slides teach semantic HTML (tags chosen for meaning, not looks), the strong and em text tags, the page-region elements, and the four kinds of lists: ordered, unordered, nested, and description lists.

Main ideas:
Sub-lesson 02a, semantic HTML and text formatting:
1. Semantic HTML means using tags that describe what content means, not just how it looks. Screen readers and search engines understand semantic pages better, which improves accessibility for everyone.
2. The strong element versus the b element. The strong element (written <strong>) marks text as important; the b element (<b>) only makes text bold with no meaning. The slides say screen readers emphasize strong but skip over b, so use strong.
Code: <p>This is <strong>important</strong> information.</p>
This paragraph marks the word important as having strong importance.
3. The em element versus the i element. The em element (<em>) marks stressed emphasis; the i element (<i>) is visual italics only. Use em for emphasis, and i for things like book titles or foreign words, for example a book title such as To Kill a Mockingbird. The slides call em the more semantic choice.
4. Page structure elements. A page can be organized into regions: header for the logo and site title, nav for navigation links, main for the main content, article for a blog post or main piece of content, aside for a sidebar or related links, footer for copyright and contact information, and section for grouping content. In the sample layout, header and nav come first, main contains an article and an aside, and footer comes last. Each tag tells browsers and screen readers what that region does.
Sub-lesson 02b, lists:
5. Ordered lists. The ol element is for lists where order matters, such as steps, rankings, or recipe instructions. Each item goes in an li (list item) element, and the browser numbers the items automatically. The example is four baking steps: preheat to 350 degrees, mix, pour, bake 25 minutes.
6. Unordered lists. The ul element is for lists where order does not matter, such as shopping lists, features, or ingredients. Items are shown with bullets. The example lists flour, sugar, eggs, and butter.
7. Nested lists. A list can sit inside another list. The inner list goes inside an li of the outer list, before that li closes. The example is an ordered list whose first item "Prep work" contains an unordered list of "Gather ingredients" and "Preheat oven", followed by a second item "Mix and bake". Indent nested lists in your code; the browser handles the display.
8. Description lists. The dl element holds term and description pairs, such as glossaries or ingredient amounts. The dt element is the term and the dd element is its definition or description. The example pairs Flour with 2 cups and Sugar with 1 cup.
Code: <dl><dt>Flour</dt><dd>2 cups</dd></dl>
This is a description list with one term, Flour, described as 2 cups.
9. Accessibility and screen readers. According to the slides, strong and em are read with emphasis; header, nav, main, and footer help users jump around the page; lists are announced as lists with their item count; and search engines rank semantic HTML higher. The message: build for everyone and use semantic tags.
Correction: NVDA does not announce strong or em by default; it reports them as bold and italic only when font-attribute reporting is turned on in Document Formatting settings (NVDA+Control+D). The slides overstate this, but strong and em are still the correct semantic tags, and the landmark and list announcements are what you actually hear by default.
10. Key takeaways: use strong and em; structure pages with header, nav, main, section, article, aside, and footer; use ol for ordered and ul for unordered lists; nest lists when needed; use dl, dt, and dd for definitions; semantic HTML improves accessibility and SEO. Next comes building a recipe page that combines all of this.

Key terms:
Semantic HTML — tags that describe the meaning of content.
strong — important text; the semantic replacement for b.
em — emphasized, stressed text; the semantic replacement for i.
b — bold appearance only, no meaning.
i — italic appearance only; acceptable for titles and foreign words.
header — introductory region with logo or site title.
nav — region of navigation links.
main — the page's main content.
section — a grouping of related content.
article — a self-contained piece such as a blog post.
aside — sidebar or related content.
footer — closing region with copyright and contact info.
ol — ordered (numbered) list.
ul — unordered (bulleted) list.
li — a list item inside ol or ul.
dl — description list.
dt — the term in a description list.
dd — the description of that term.
Nested list — a list placed inside an li of another list.
SEO — search engine optimization; how well search engines understand and rank a page.

Watch out for:
- Choose tags by meaning. Prefer strong and em over b and i.
- A nested list must go inside an li, not directly inside ol or ul.
- Use ol only when order truly matters.

Connects to:
The AI track's ai02 lesson uses the same page regions and ordered and unordered lists for a music site home page.
