Summary of: html02_Walkthrough.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html02 Semantic HTML
Type of document: walkthrough

In one sentence:
This guided lab builds a recipe page (the example is chocolate chip cookies) step by step, using every semantic region, all four list types, and strong and em, with blanks for you to fill in.

Main ideas:
Each part gives a code pattern with blanks and tells you what to fill in.
1. The HTML shell. Write the HTML5 boilerplate: doctype, html with lang en, a head with meta charset UTF-8, a viewport meta tag, and a title, then the body. Fill in a page title such as "Chocolate Chip Cookie Recipe".
Code: <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
This new head tag tells phones to size the page to the device width; it appears in the boilerplate without further explanation.
2. Header. Inside the body, add a header containing an h1 site name (example "Jessica's Recipes") and a p tagline (example "Easy, delicious recipes for home cooks").
3. Navigation. After the header, add a nav with three links separated by vertical bar characters, using a placeholder address of a single number sign. Fill in link text such as Home, Recipes, About, Contact. The walkthrough says not to worry about link syntax yet; links are the next unit.
4. Main and first section. After the nav, open main and inside it a section with an h2 "Recipe:" followed by the recipe name (example "Classic Chocolate Chip Cookies") and a short description paragraph (example "Soft, chewy cookies loaded with chocolate. Makes 24 cookies.").
5. Ingredients as an unordered list. Still in the section, add an h3 "Ingredients" and a ul with at least 5 li items, because ingredient order does not matter. Examples: 2 cups flour, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla.
6. Instructions as an ordered list. Add an h3 "Instructions" and an ol with at least 5 steps, because order matters. Examples: preheat oven to 350 degrees, cream butter and sugar.
7. Nested list. Change a step, such as step 1 "Prepare the ingredients", to contain an inner ul of sub-steps (examples: measure flour, sugar, and butter; crack eggs; preheat oven). The inner ul goes inside that li before it closes.
8. Description list for nutrition. Add an h3 "Nutrition Information (per cookie)" and a dl with dt terms Calories, Protein, Fat, and Carbohydrates, each followed by a dd value (examples: 180 calories, 2g protein, 9g fat, 24g carbohydrates).
9. strong and em. In the description near the top, mark labels as important and phrases as emphasized. Example: a paragraph with strong labels "Prep time:", "Bake time:", and "Makes:" followed by 15 minutes, 10 minutes, and 24 cookies; and a sentence saying the cookies are best enjoyed warm (em on "best enjoyed") and the chips should be high-quality (strong on "high-quality").
Code: <strong>Prep time:</strong> 15 minutes
This marks the label Prep time as important, followed by the plain value.
10. Aside. Before the closing main tag, add an aside with an h3 "Related Recipes" and a ul of three recipe names (examples: Oatmeal Raisin Cookies, Brownies, Sugar Cookies).
11. Footer. After the closing main tag, add a footer with a copyright paragraph: the copyright entity, 2024, your site or name, and "All rights reserved."

Key terms:
Boilerplate — the standard starting code for every HTML page.
viewport meta tag — head tag that makes the page fit mobile screen widths.
header, nav, main, section, aside, footer — the semantic page regions used.
ul, ol, li — unordered list, ordered list, list item.
Nested list — a ul placed inside an li of the ol.
dl, dt, dd — description list, term, description.
strong, em — importance and emphasis.
&copy; — the character entity that displays the copyright symbol.
Validator — the W3C checker at validator.w3.org.

What you are asked to do:
Fill in every blank in the steps above, then check your page against the checklist:
- header contains the site title and tagline.
- nav contains navigation links.
- main wraps all primary content.
- section groups the recipe information.
- h2 and h3 tags structure the content.
- Ingredients use ul; instructions use ol.
- At least one list is nested inside another.
- Nutrition uses dl, dt, and dd.
- strong is used for important info and em for emphasized text.
- aside contains related links.
- footer has copyright and contact info.
- All tags are properly closed.
- No b or i tags.
Then validate and test: validate at validator.w3.org, open the page in a browser, test with a screen reader such as NVDA, and check that it makes sense on a small screen. Finally compare with the solution file html02_Walkthrough_Solutions.html and move on to html02a_Task.html and html02b_Task.html.
Correction: to satisfy both the footer step and the checklist, put the copyright line and a contact line (such as an email address) in the footer; the footer step alone only adds the copyright. Heads up: the solution file html02_Walkthrough_Solutions.html is not in the lesson folder, so check your page with the checklist and validator instead.

Watch out for:
- aside goes inside main, before main closes; footer goes after main closes.
- The nested ul must be inside an li, before that li's closing tag.
- Do not use b or i anywhere on this page.
- Close every tag.

Connects to:
Builds the recipe page promised at the end of the html02 Slides; the html02 DIY Task repeats it independently.
