Summary of: ai07_AudioLab.md
Course: Web Design AI track (archived version)
Lesson: ai07 Flexbox and Responsive Design
Type of document: audio lab (screen reader experiment and audit, "Visual Order vs. Reading Order")

In one sentence:
This lab measures what happens when CSS displays your nav links in reverse while the code keeps the original order, explains why that mismatch harms users, checks that the wrapping card row keeps its reading order, and audits your new page template.

Main ideas:
This week made your site responsive, and the brief's twist deliberately planted a trap: Claude applied the flexbox rule row-reverse, which makes the nav links display in reverse order while the code underneath stays in the original order.

1. Step 1, measure the reversed nav. This compares the order the page reads in with the order it displays in, which now disagree. Pull up the links list and note the nav link order. Tab through the nav and note the order again. Then ask Claude to describe the visual order of your nav links left to right. You should find that the links list and Tab both give the original order (Home first), because they follow the code, while Claude's description gives the reversed order (Home last), because the CSS changed only the display. Write both orders side by side.
2. Step 2, name the principle. Two visitors now experience two different navigations: a keyboard or screen reader user gets Home first, and someone reading the screen gets Home last. If instructions anywhere said "choose the last link in the menu," the two would pick different links; real sites cause real confusion this way. Write four sentences in your own words: why the order in the code should stay logical, why CSS reordering should be used sparingly, and who gets hurt when display order and code order disagree. The lab notes that accessibility guidelines have a rule that reading order must be meaningful, and you just demonstrated why. Cleanup: have Claude remove the row-reverse rule from your nav and save, then re-check with the links list.
3. Step 3, the wrap check. Your card row now wraps into fewer columns on narrow windows, a purely visual reflow that must not change reading order. Read continuously through the card section. Ask Claude to describe how the card row looks in a wide window versus a narrow one and record the description in your prompt log. Then consider whether anything about reading order depends on window width; it should not, because the audit reads code order either way. Confirm by re-reading the section after Claude describes the narrow layout. You should hear the same reading order regardless of window size; the cards stack visually on narrow screens, but the meaning never moves.
4. Step 4, the template audit. This week you saved template.html, the skeleton every future page starts from. If it passes while nearly empty, every page built from it starts out correct. Open template.html and run the basic battery: the page announcement (a placeholder title should announce), the headings list (one placeholder heading level 1), the region walk (banner, navigation, main, and content information, all four), and one Tab press (the skip link should come first). You should hear a tiny page that passes everything. If a check fails, fix it now with a precise request to Claude, because a flaw in the template gets copied into every future page; the lab calls this the highest-leverage fix of the semester.

Code: nav ul { flex-direction: row-reverse; }
An example of the kind of rule the twist adds: it lays out the flex items in reverse on screen without changing the HTML order that screen readers and the Tab key follow. (The exact selector is only an example.)

Key terms:
Visual order (display order) — the order things appear on screen, which CSS can change.
Reading order (code or source order) — the order in the HTML, followed by screen readers, the links list, and the Tab key.
row-reverse — a flex-direction value that displays flex items in reverse order.
Wrap — flex items moving onto new lines when the window is narrow.
Reflow — the layout rearranging itself for a different window width.
Template (template.html) — a bare page skeleton used to start every new page.
Basic battery — the page announcement, headings list, region walk, and first Tab press.

What you are asked to do:
- Step 1: record the links list order, the Tab order, and Claude's visual description side by side.
- Step 2: write four sentences on the principle, then have row-reverse removed and re-check.
- Step 3: read the card section, record Claude's wide-versus-narrow description in your prompt log, re-read, and write what you heard.
- Step 4: run the basic battery on template.html, write what you heard, and fix any failure right away.
- Verdict: write the two-sentence verdict at the end of the lab (its prompts are in the original file); it is part of the completed AudioLab you turn in.

Watch out for:
- CSS reordering (such as row-reverse) makes screen and code order disagree.
- Remove the row-reverse rule after the experiment.
- Any flaw in template.html spreads to every future page.

Connects to:
Audits the site and template from ai07 BuildBrief; the reading-order idea continues from ai06 AudioLab Step 4. Matches html07 Flexbox and Responsive Design in the HTML CSS JavaScript track.
