Summary of: html04_Walkthrough.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html04 Images Media and Tables
Type of document: walkthrough

In one sentence:
This is a fill-in-the-blank live demo, done in chunks across the lesson, that builds a Product Showcase page for headphones with a captioned image gallery, an embedded YouTube video, and a comparison table.

Main ideas:
1. Getting the images first. The photos are in the images folder inside html04_imagesMediaTables on the course GitHub repository (42mcmaster/htmlCssJavaScript). Download them into a folder named images placed right next to your HTML file. The img tags use paths like images/nature-scene-1.jpg, so if the folder is missing or named differently, the image shows as broken. That is a path problem, not a bug in your code.
2. Part 1, the page skeleton. Create html04Walkthrough.html as a basic HTML5 document (doctype, html with lang="en", meta charset UTF-8, meta viewport, title). The head includes a small style block that only draws borders on tables: a 1-pixel solid dark border on the table and cells, border-collapse to merge double borders into one line, and 6 pixels of padding inside cells. The document says this is CSS from Lesson 05 and to leave it alone. The body has a header with an h1 and the line "Explore our premium product lineup", plus placeholder comments for the gallery, video, and table. Blanks: the title and the h1 are both "Premium Headphones".
3. Part 2, the image gallery. After the header, add a section with id="gallery" and an h2 "Product Gallery". It holds three figure elements, each with an img and a figcaption, using product-view-1.jpg, product-view-2.jpg, and product-view-3.jpg from the images folder. Captions: front view of the wireless headphones; headphones next to the carrying case; headphones hanging on a wall hook. Alt text blanks: "Black over-ear headphones, angled front view", "Black headphones beside a zippered carrying case", and "Black headphones hanging on a white wall hook". Key points: descriptive alt text serves screen readers and broken images; figure plus figcaption keeps a picture and its caption semantically linked; these are free Creative Commons photos credited in images/CREDITS.md.
4. First stop. Students then do html04a_Task.html (images) and work on the html04 Project gallery and start the promo script.
5. Part 3, the video. Add a section with id="video" and an h2 "Watch the Product Demo" containing an iframe with width 560, height 315, src https://www.youtube.com/embed/ plus a video ID, title "Product Demo Video", and allowfullscreen. The blank is the video ID m5V5jP1VCzo, a Bose QuietComfort headphones video. Key points: iframe embeds outside content; use the embed URL ending in /embed/ and the ID, which you find on YouTube by choosing Share and then Embed; allowfullscreen permits full screen; title improves accessibility.
6. Second stop. Students do html04b_Task.html (media) and work on the project (record and shoot the promo).
7. Part 4, the comparison table. Add a section with id="comparison" and an h2 "Product Comparison". The table has the caption "Bose Quiet Comfort Headphone Models Comparison". Its header row is Feature, Basic Model, Premium Plus, Professional. Data rows, with the blanks filled in: Battery Life is 20 hours, 30 hours, 40 hours. Noise Cancellation is Passive, Active (Preset Modes), Active (Adjustable). Bluetooth Range is 10m, 15m, 20m. Price is $99.99, $149.99, $249.99. Key points: tables arrange data in rows and columns; th cells are headers (bold and centered), td cells are data; the caption titles the table for accessibility.
8. Challenge, colspan. Add a new first row right after the caption, above the header row, with a single th reading "Product Models" and colspan="4" so it stretches across all four columns.
Code: <tr><th colspan="4">Product Models</th></tr>
This is a row with one header cell that counts as four columns wide.
The rule behind it: every row must add up to the same number of columns. A normal row does that with four cells; this row does it with one cell worth four. Experiment: set it to 3 and the browser leaves a gap on the right. Set it to 5 and run the W3C validator; it reports an extra column with no cells. The browser will not show you a too-large colspan, but the validator will.
9. Third stop. Students do html04c_Task.html (tables) and then the project.
10. Part 5, testing. Save the file as product-showcase.html, open it in a browser, and check that all images load with proper alt text (using developer tools), the video embeds and has controls, and the table columns line up. Then run it through the W3C HTML Validator at validator.w3.org.

Key terms:
figure and figcaption — group an image with its caption.
alt — text description of an image.
iframe — embeds content from another site.
embed URL — the special YouTube address containing /embed/ and the video ID.
allowfullscreen — lets the embedded video go full screen.
table, tr, th, td, caption — table, row, header cell, data cell, table title.
colspan — number of columns a cell stretches across.
W3C validator — online checker that finds HTML errors.
border-collapse — CSS property in the provided style block that merges double cell borders into one.

What you are asked to do:
- Build the page in html04Walkthrough.html, filling every blank as listed above.
- Work in parts: Parts 1 and 2, then html04a_Task.html; Part 3, then html04b_Task.html; Part 4 and the colspan challenge, then html04c_Task.html; the html04 Project runs alongside.
- Test and validate as described in Part 5.

Watch out for:
- Broken images almost always mean a wrong path or folder name.
- Use the embed URL, not the share URL.
- A colspan that is too big does not look broken in the browser; only the validator catches it.
- Heads up: Part 1 names the file html04Walkthrough.html but Part 5 says to save it as product-showcase.html. Keep html04Walkthrough.html, the name you create in Part 1 and use throughout, rather than making a second copy.
- Correction: a YouTube iframe supplies YouTube's own player controls; the controls attribute belongs only on the video and audio elements. Part 5's "has controls" check just means the embedded player appears and plays, so do not add a controls attribute to the iframe.

Connects to:
html04a, html04b, and html04c tasks and the html04 Project. The table border style block is explained in Lesson 05.
