Summary of: html04_StudyGuide.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html04 Images Media and Tables
Type of document: study guide

In one sentence:
This study guide lists the 23 vocabulary terms for Lesson 04, gives quick code patterns for images, media, and tables, and names the state competencies covered (its closing practice questions are left out of these notes).

Main ideas:
1. Vocabulary. The guide defines 23 terms (all listed under Key terms below). It links a YouTube video titled "JPEG, PNG, SVG, OR WEBP? How the Right Image Format Makes Your site FASTER!" and a second video explaining lossy compression.
2. Image patterns. A basic image needs src and alt. A sized image adds width="400" and height="300". An image that shrinks on small screens adds the style attribute with max-width: 100% and height: auto; the guide notes this is CSS from Lesson 05. A figure element wraps an image plus a figcaption.
3. Video and audio patterns. A video element with width 400, height 300, and controls holds two source tags, one MP4 (type video/mp4) and one WebM (type video/webm), followed by fallback text saying the browser does not support HTML5 video. An audio element with controls holds a source tag for an MP3 (type audio/mpeg) plus fallback text. A YouTube video is embedded with an iframe that has width 560, height 315, an embed URL, a title, and allowfullscreen.
4. Table patterns. A simple table has a caption ("Sales Data"), a header row of th cells (Month, Revenue), and a data row of td cells (January, $5,000). A second example shows a th with colspan="2" spanning both columns, then a td with rowspan="2" that fills the first column of two rows, so the second of those rows contains only one cell. A third example shows header cells with scope="col".
Code: <th scope="col">Product</th>
This is a header cell labeled Product that tells screen readers it labels the column below it.
5. Ohio Department of Education (ODE) competencies covered: 6.2.4 insert images and wrap text around images; 6.2.5 resize images with width/height attributes and CSS; 6.2.6 embed audio and video; 6.1.6 create tables with proper rows, columns, and headers; 6.5.9 incorporate media, forms, links, and tables into pages.
6. Six key concepts to remember:
- Always write descriptive alt text; screen readers depend on it and it helps SEO.
- Pick the right format: photos use JPG, graphics and logos use PNG, icons use SVG, and WebP is the modern option.
- Set width and height on every image; the max-width style lets it shrink on small screens.
- Give video and audio multiple source formats as fallbacks for browser compatibility.
- Build semantic tables: th for headers, caption for the title, scope for accessibility.
- Use iframe for YouTube, and remember the embed URL is different from the share URL.

Key terms:
img tag — element that embeds an image.
src attribute — path or URL of the file.
alt text (alt attribute) — description for accessibility and SEO; shown if the image fails to load.
figure element — semantic container for an image and its caption.
figcaption element — the caption or explanation for a figure.
JPG (JPEG) — compressed photo format; small files, lossy compression (a method that shrinks files by dropping some detail).
PNG — format that supports transparency; lossless, larger than JPG.
SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) — vector format for icons; crisp at any size.
WebP — modern format with better compression; smaller files but newer browser support.
width attribute — width in pixels.
height attribute — height in pixels.
video tag — HTML5 element for video.
audio tag — HTML5 element for audio.
controls attribute — shows play, pause, and volume controls.
source tag — names a media file and its format; use several for compatibility.
iframe tag — embeds outside content such as YouTube, Google Maps, or data dashboards.
table tag — container for tabular data.
tr tag — a table row.
th tag — a header cell, usually bold and centered.
td tag — a normal data cell.
colspan attribute — merges a cell across columns.
rowspan attribute — merges a cell across rows.
caption tag — the title or description of a table.
scope — attribute on a header cell (col or row) used in the snippets for accessibility.

Watch out for:
- The share URL from YouTube will not work inside an iframe; you need the embed URL.
- When a cell uses rowspan, the row below it gets one fewer cell.
- The style attribute is CSS; it appears here early and is explained in Lesson 05.
- Heads up: competency 6.2.4 mentions wrapping text around images, which the guide never shows. That is done with CSS: give the image float: left or float: right and the following text flows around its other side (add a margin so the text does not touch the image).

Connects to:
Lesson 05 covers the CSS behind the max-width style. The Web Design AI track's ai04 lesson covers the same topic.
