Summary of: html04b_Task.html
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html04 Images Media and Tables
Type of document: task starter file

In one sentence:
This practice starter page has you embed a local video, a local audio clip, and a YouTube video, and includes a reference table of media formats.

Main ideas:
1. The page is titled "HTML5 Media Task" and says it practices embedding videos, audio, and external media. The head contains a small style block that only draws table borders; its comment says it is CSS from Lesson 05 and to leave it alone.
2. Each exercise section has a placeholder of three underscores where your code goes.
3. Section "Embed HTML5 Video" (id video) says to use the video element for local files and gives the tip to provide multiple source formats (MP4 and WebM) for browser compatibility.
4. Section "Embed HTML5 Audio" (id audio) says to use the audio element for podcasts, music, or sound effects, with the tip to always include controls so users can play, pause, and adjust volume.
5. Section "Embed YouTube Video" (id youtube) says to use iframe for outside sources and warns in bold to use the embed URL (ending in /embed/ and the video ID), not the share URL.
6. Section "Media Format Reference" (id formats) is a finished table with columns Type, Format, File Extension, and MIME Type. Its rows: Video, MP4 (most compatible), .mp4, video/mp4. Video, WebM, .webm, video/webm. Audio, MP3 (most compatible), .mp3, audio/mpeg. Audio, OGG, .ogg, audio/ogg. The MIME type is the value you put in a source tag's type attribute.
7. The footer says "Task complete! Test all media elements in your browser."

Key terms:
video — element for playing a video file.
audio — element for playing a sound file.
controls — attribute that shows the player buttons.
source — element naming one media file (src) and its format (type).
fallback text — text inside video or audio that appears only if the browser cannot play it.
iframe — element embedding another website's content.
allowfullscreen — lets the iframe go full screen.
MIME type — the standard label for a file's format, such as video/mp4 or audio/mpeg.

What you are asked to do:
TODO 1: Add a video element with width 400, height 300, and the controls attribute, containing two source tags, first src media/demo.mp4 with type video/mp4, then src media/demo.webm with type video/webm, followed by the fallback text "Your browser does not support HTML5 video."
TODO 2: Add an audio element with controls, containing two source tags, first src media/podcast.mp3 with type audio/mpeg, then src media/podcast.ogg with type audio/ogg, followed by the fallback text "Your browser does not support HTML5 audio."
TODO 3: Add an iframe with width 560, height 315, src https://www.youtube.com/embed/aqz-KE-bpKQ, title "Sample YouTube Video", and the allowfullscreen attribute, with fallback text inside saying your browser does not support iframes.
Code: <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aqz-KE-bpKQ" title="Sample YouTube Video" allowfullscreen></iframe>
This is the finished iframe without its fallback text; the title tells screen reader users what the frame contains. According to the lesson's credits file, this sample is the Big Buck Bunny video.

Watch out for:
- The media files live in a folder named media next to this file; the paths must match.
- The audio MP3 type is audio/mpeg, not audio/mp3.
- Without controls, the player has no buttons and visitors cannot start it.
- Use the embed URL, not the share URL.

Connects to:
Part 3 of the html04 Walkthrough and Part 2 (promo video) of the html04 Project.
