Summary of: html03_Walkthrough.md
Course: HTML CSS JavaScript track
Lesson: html03 Links and Navigation
Type of document: walkthrough

In one sentence:
This guided build creates a three-page "Travel Adventure" mini-site (index.html, about.html, contact.html) with shared navigation, jump links to sections, email and phone links, a download link, and testing steps.

Main ideas:
Part 1, the home page, index.html:
1. Start with the HTML5 structure: doctype, html lang en, head with meta charset, viewport meta tag, and the title "Travel Adventure - Home". In the body, a comment, then a header with id "top" containing an h1 "Travel Adventure" and a nav of three links: Home to index.html, About Us to about.html, Contact to contact.html. Then an empty main, then a footer with the line "copyright 2024 Travel Adventure. All rights reserved." and a second nav with the same three links. Navigation appears in both the header and the footer.
2. Replace the placeholder comment in main with three sections, each with an id, an h2, and a paragraph: id "featured" (Featured Destinations), id "packages" (Our Packages), and id "testimonials" (What Our Travelers Say).
3. Add a jump navigation right after main opens: a nav with id "page-nav" holding a paragraph "Jump to:" and an unordered list of four links to #featured, #packages, #testimonials, and #top (Back to Top). Every section has an id, and the links reach them with the number sign plus the id.
Code: <li><a href="#packages">Our Packages</a></li>
This list item holds a link that jumps to the section whose id is packages.
4. Test: save, open in a browser, and use each jump link. The page should move to that section, and the address should end with the fragment, such as index.html#featured. Back to Top should return to the header with id "top".
Part 2, the about page, about.html:
5. Same head (title "Travel Adventure - About Us") and the same header nav and footer as the home page. In main: an h2 "About Our Company" and a paragraph saying the company was founded in 2015 to inspire wanderlust; a section with id "team" (h3 Our Team); a section with id "mission" (h3 Our Mission, about sustainable and ethical travel); and a nav of jump links to #team and #mission plus a "Back to Home" link to index.html. Save it in the same folder as index.html.
6. Test navigation between pages: from index.html, choose About Us, then Home. These links are relative paths such as about.html because both files are in the same folder.
Part 3, the contact page, contact.html:
7. Same head (title "Travel Adventure - Contact Us"), header, and footer. In main: an h2 "Contact Us" and a welcome paragraph. A section with id "contact-info" (h3 Contact Information) contains a plain email link to info@traveladventure.com, a "Send us an email" link to support@traveladventure.com with the subject "Travel Question" (the space written as %20), and a phone link using the tel: protocol. A section with id "booking" (h3 Booking Information) contains a download link to brochure.pdf. A nav jumps to #contact-info and #booking and back to index.html.
Code: <a href="tel:+1-555-0123">(555) 012-3456</a>
This is a phone link; on a device that can call, activating it starts a call to the number in the href.
Code: <a href="brochure.pdf" download>Download Brochure (PDF)</a>
This link downloads brochure.pdf instead of opening it.
Correction: a tel link's href number should match the number shown in the link text; this example dials 555-0123 but displays (555) 012-3456, so make both the same number in your page. Heads up: no brochure.pdf is provided, so put any small PDF named brochure.pdf in the same folder or the download link will find nothing.
8. Test the email link: your default email app should open with the To field filled in. mailto only opens the email program; it never sends anything by itself.
Part 4, review:
9. Test every link: from each page you should reach the other two; the jump links on each page should work; the email link should open your email app; Back to Top should work on index.html. List any that fail so the class can fix them together.
10. Optional improvement: on the contact page, before the footer, add a paragraph about a partnership with an external link to https://www.adventureguides.com using target="_blank", so the outside site opens in a new tab and visitors do not leave yours.
11. Summary: the finished site uses absolute and relative links, page anchors and fragment identifiers, mailto email links, a download link, and consistent navigation. Save all three files in the same folder.

Key terms:
Relative link — a path like about.html for files in the same folder.
Absolute link — a full address like https://www.adventureguides.com.
id — unique name on a section that jump links target.
Fragment identifier — the number sign plus id, such as #featured.
Jump navigation — a list of links to sections on the same page.
mailto: — opens the email app with the address filled in.
tel: — phone link protocol.
download — attribute that downloads the linked file.
target="_blank" — opens the link in a new tab.

What you are asked to do:
Build all three pages as described (the "Try This" steps), test the jump links, page-to-page navigation, and email link, and keep all three files in one folder. The external partner link is optional.

Watch out for:
Troubleshooting from the document:
- If links do not work, check that file names match exactly (they can be case-sensitive), that files are in the same folder, and that ids are spelled the same in the link and the target.
- If the email link does not open an email app, your computer may not have a default email client; the link itself still works.
- To link from a page in a subfolder back up to the home page, use ../ before the file name, as in ../index.html.

Connects to:
Follows the html03 Slides; the html03 DIY Task has you build your own three-page site the same way.
